Behavioral Decision Making at 50:
Achievements, Prospects, and Challenges ?
RobinM.Hogarth
ICREAandUniversitatPompeuFabra
Summary. ManypeopleconsiderthatWardEdwards’1954reviewpapermarksthe
beginningofbehavioraldecisionmakingorthestudyofhowpeoplemakedecisions.
FiftyyearsafterEdwards’paper,itisilluminatingtoreﬂectontheprogressofthe
ﬁeldoverthelastﬁvedecadesandtoaskwhatthenextﬁftyyearsmighthaveinstore.
Todothis,Iidentifytenmajorideasorﬁndingsthathaveemergedtodate.These
are:(1)thatjudgmentcanbemodeled;(2)boundedrationality;(3)tounderstand
decisionmaking,understandingtasksismoreimportantthanunderstandingpeople;
(4)levelsofaspirationorreferencepointsandlossaversion;(DEMO)heuristicrules;(6)
addingandtheimportanceofsimplemodels;(7)thesearchforconﬁrmation;(8)the
evasivenatureofriskperception;(9)theconstructionofpreference;and(10)the
rolesofemotions,aﬀect,andintuition.Ifurtheridentifymajorchallengescurrently
facingtheﬁeld.Theseincludelinkingknowledgetothegrowingbodyofworkin
neuroscience,developingmethodologiesthatcangeneralizeexperimentalresults,
havingmoreimpactonhelpingpeoplemakedecisions,DEMO
withotherdisciplinesinthesocialsciences.
1 Introduction
Theareaofresearchcalled“judgmentanddecisionmaking”involvesre-
searchersfromseveraldisciplinesandespeciallypsychology,economics,and
statistics.Ithasalsopermeatedmanyappliedﬁeldssuchasaccounting,mar-
keting,andmedicine.Centraltothisresearchistheinterplaybetweentwo
kindsofmodels:ontheonehand,normativemodelsofhowdecisionsshould
bemade;and,ontheotherhand,descriptivemodelsofhowpeopleactually
makedecisions.Theresearchistypicallypursuedbecause,ﬁrst,judgmentand
? TheauthoralsothanksPaulSlovicforconstructivecommentsandacknowledges
thesupportoftheSpanishMinisteriodeEducaci´onyCiencia.Whilerevising
DEMO,theauthorlearnedofthedeathofWardEdwards
inFebruary2005.Hehopesthatthispapercanbethoughtofasasmalltribute
toEdwardsandtheworkthatEdwardsinspired.
36RobinM.Hogarth
choiceareubiquitousandimportanthumanactivitiesthatpeopleﬁndinter-
estingand,second,thereisageneralexpectationthatscientistsmighthelp
peoplemakebetterdecisions.
People(andanimals)have,ofcourse,madedecisionssincethedawnof
time.However,DEMO
datedtotheyear1654whenFermatandPascalstartedtocorrespondabout
howtousemathematicsincertainformsofgambling 1 .Oneinterestingdimen-
sionaboutthiscorrespondencewasthata“good”strategycouldbeformalized
andthatthiswasnotnecessarilywhatpeoplewereactuallydoing.
Threecenturieslater,WardEdwards[21]publishedwhatisgenerallycon-
sideredtheseminalcontributiontothemodernstudyofjudgmentandde-
cisionmaking.Thiswasanextensivereviewofstudiesfromeconomicsand
psychologyinwhichhumanbehaviorondecisionmakingtaskswascompared
topredictionsgeneratedbymodelsfromeconomicsandstatistics.Thetiming
ofthisreviewwaspropitiousinthattestabletheoreticalformulationsofdeci-
sionmakingmodelshadbeenandwereabouttobepublished(vonNeumann
&Morgenstern[102];Savage[84])andAmericanpsychologists-recentlyfreed
oftheshacklesofbehaviorism-wereabouttoengageintheso-calledcognitive
revolutionwhichallowedthemtoaskquestionsabouthowpeoplethink(cf.
Bruner,Goodnow,&DEMO).Inaddition,theadventofusablecomputers
addedtwodimensions.Onewastheabilitytoexploitcomputationalcapacity.
Theotherwastheuseofthecomputerasaninformationprocessingmetaphor
ofthemind.
Inthispaper,Ireﬂectonprogressmadeinthepastﬁvedecadesandiden-
tifychallengesandopportunitiesfacingtheﬁeldatthepresenttime.Todo
this-aswellastocommentonhistoricaldevelopments-thepapercontains
twomainsections.Intheﬁrst,Iidentifytenkeyideasorﬁndings2 thatI
believerepresentthemostsigniﬁcantadvances.Inthesecond,Ioutlinewhat
Iseeasthemajorchallenges.Inshort,Ishallconcludethattheﬁeldiscur-
rentlyingoodhealthandthatfuturegenerationsofresearchersfacewonderful
opportunities.
Intermsofthesociologyoftheﬁeld,itisimportanttonotethattheleading
professionalsocietyintheUnitedStatesrecentlycelebratedits25thannual
meetingwithsome350scientistsinattendance.ItscounterpartinEurope
hasbeenholdingmeetingseverytwoyearssincetheearly1970s.Thereisa
specializedmedicaldecisionmakingsociety(DEMO)and
sessionsonjudgmentanddecisionmakingaretypicallyheldinmeetingsorga-
nizedbysocialandexperimentalpsychologists,managementandorganization
scientists,economists,andscholarsinaccountingandmarketing.Thereare
1 Thisis,ofcourse,averyWesternperspective.Iwouldbecurioustoknow,for
example,whetherChinesescientistshadnotmadesimilarinvestigations.They
werecertainlymuchmoreadvancedthantheirWesterncounterpartsintheMiddle
Ages.
2 Theterms“ideas”or“ﬁndings”areusedinquiteabroadsense.Also,thispre-
sentationbeneﬁtsmuchfrompreviousthoughtsonthetopic(Hogarth[47]).
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5037
twomajorjournals(OrganizationalBehaviorandHumanDecisionProcesses
andtheJournalofBehavioralDecisionMaking)butthemajorityofresearch
-andoftentheseminalpapers-ispublishedinleadingjournalswithindisci-
plines,e.g.,ofpsychologyandeconomics.Researcherswhoidentifywiththe
ﬁeldofjudgmentanddecisionmakingtendtoworkattheintersectionofﬁelds
indepartmentsofpsychologyorbusiness.
Whereasjudgmentsanddecisionsultimatelyresultinobservableactions,DEMO
researcherstendtofocuseﬀortsonthedistinctivecomponentsofinference
andpreference.Usingtheeconomicmodelofchoiceasaconceptualmetaphor,
workoninferencecoversprocessesofjudgmentsorbeliefs;workonpreferences
dealswithissuesofutility,e.g.,risk.Animportantquestionintheresearch
focusesondecidingwhenajudgmentorchoiceisorisnot“good.”Twocrite-
riaareused:“correspondence”ortheextenttowhichjudgmentsordecisions
areincorrespondencewithsomeempiricalreality(e.g.,theaccuracyoffore-
castsof,say,theweather,orsomebody’sactions);and“coherence”orthe
extenttowhichajudgmentordecisionisconsistent(i.e.,coherent)withdic-
tatesofnormativemodels(e.g.,theconjunctionruleinprobabilitytheory,
Tversky&Kahneman[99];orinvarianceofexpressedpreferenceunderdif-
ferentmodesofelicitation,Lichtenstein&Slovic[71];Grether&Plott[37]).
DEMO
atingjudgmentsanddecisionshasbeenthetopicofheateddebate(Hammond
[40,41]).
Themaintopicofthisbookisexperimentaleconomics.AlthoughIhave
donesomeworkinthisarea,itisnotmyintellectualhome.Ihope,nonetheless,
thatmycommentswillbeseenasrelevanttothisimportantandgrowingarea
ofsocialscience.
2 Ten Key Ideas or Findings
Inowidentifymychoiceofthetenkeyideasorﬁndingsandaskthereader’s
indulgenceformypersonalandobviouslysubjectiveselection.
1.Thatdecisionscanbemodeled. AsrevealedbyEdwards’sreview,
priorto1954severalstudiescomparedthedecisionspeoplemadewiththe
DEMO,however,
wasnottomodelpeople’schoicesassuchbuttoassesswhethertheywere
consistentwithexpectedutility.Themindsetofthetimewastomake“asif”
interpretationsoftheconsistenciesandinconsistenciesobserved.
In1955,KennethHammondpublishedapaperinthePsychologicalReview
thatopenedthepathtomodelingpsychologicalprocessesofjudgment.Ham-
mond’sinsightwastomaketheconnectionbetweenprocessesofperception
(asconceptualizedbyBrunswik[5])withthoseofjudgment.Both,DEMO
toHammond,involvedinferencesconcerningacriterionmadeonthebasisof
cues.(Consider,forexample,thesimilaritybetweenthetasksofrecognizing
afriend-aperceptualjudgment-andinferringtheageofapersonyouhave
38RobinM.Hogarth
justmet.)Thus,assumingthatpeople’sjudgmentsarenotinconsistent,itis
possibletomodeltheprocessbyexpressingjudgmentsasmathematicalfunc-
tionsofthecharacteristicsoftheinformationalcuesonwhichtheyarebased.
Inthiscase,onedoesnotneedanormativemodelofchoice(suchasexpected
utilitytheory)withwhichtocompareoutcomes(DEMO,acoherencecriterion).
Instead,onecancompareoutcomeswithempiricalphenomenaandinvestigate
whythepersondoesordoesnotachievecorrespondence(i.e.,dependingon
howcueshavebeenweighted,inconsistencies,andsoon).
Onecan,ofcourse,arguethatsuchmathematicaldescriptionsarenot
really“processes”(Ishallreturntothisissuebelow)butdespiteobvious
diﬃcultiesthemodelingapproachhasprovenmostuseful(cf.,Hoﬀman[44]).
First,asexploitedbyHammond,Brehmerandothers,DEMO
aboutprocessesoflearningandconﬂictresolution(Brehmer[3]).Learning,for
example,canbequitesensitivetowhattypeoffeedbackisreceived(Balzer,
Doherty,&O’Connor[1])andinconsistenciesintheexpressionofjudgmental
DEMO(Hammond[41]).
Secondisthefactthatcognitivemodelsofexpertsareoftenbetterpre-
dictorsofgivencriteriathantheexpertsthemselves.Thisﬁnding,knownas
“bootstrapping”(Goldberg[35]),wasimportantforatleasttworeasons.One
isthenotionthatamodelcanextracttheessenceofajudgmentalstrat-
egyfromanoisyprocess.Theotheristhepracticalimplication.Evenifno
criterionvariableisavailable(DEMO
cupation),amodelofanexpert’sjudgmentsislikelytoprovidemoreaccurate
predictionsthantheexpert.Inmoremodernlanguage,bootstrappingmodels
areparsimoniousformsof“expertsystems”thatcanbeusedinprediction
taskseventhoughtheirinherentsimplicitybeliestheapparentcomplexity
underlyingmostexpertsystems.
Modelsofprocessesdo,however,raisetheissueofwhatismeantbyanade-
quateprocessmodel.Clearly,DEMO
criteria.However,mostpsychologistswouldarguethattheyshoulddomore.
Thisraisestheissueofthelevelatwhichprocessesaremodeledandwhat
ancillarydatashouldandcouldbemarshaledintheirsupport.Oneclueto
thisquestionwasprovidedbyEinhorn,Kleinmuntz,andKleinmuntz[26]who
showedthatsimplelinearmodelsarecapableofmimickingthemorecomplex
processesthataretypicallyrepresentedbyso-calledprocess-tracingmodels.
This,inturn,suggeststhatprocess-tracingmodelsmaybemimickingmore
complex,underlyingpsycho-physiologicalmodelsofinformationprocessing.
Indeed,recentworkinneuroscienceattemptstolinkprocessmodelsofdeci-
sionmakingwithlevelsofactivationthataremeasuredindiﬀerentareasof
thebrain(seebelow).
Thepracticetodayistosupport(orrefute)modelsofdecisionmaking
byprovidingmeasuresofprocess(DEMO,reactiontimes)thatareconsistent(or
inconsistent)withtheuseofdiﬀerentmodels.Indeed,thedevelopmentand
availabilityofcomputershasvastlyfacilitatedthecollectionofdataandillu-
minatedmanyprocessissues(Payne,Bettman,&Johnson[82])DEMO
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5039
cally,itisworthnotingthatpriortoroughly1980manydecisionresearchers
tendedtolookdownondatacollectionmethodsthatdidnotuseobjective
statisticaltools(suchasregressionmodels).However,todaymostresearchers
acknowledgetheimportanceofancillarymeasurementsofprocessanduse
multiplemethods.
2.Boundedrationality. Formanyresearchers,DEMO
rationalityintroducedbyHerbertSimonisperhapsthekeyconceptinthe
studyofjudgmentanddecisionmaking.AsstatedbySimon,
Thecapacityofthehumanmindforformulatingandsolvingcomplex
problemsisverysmallcomparedwiththesizeoftheproblemswhose
solutionisrequiredforobjectivelyrationalbehaviorintherealworld
-orevenforaﬁrstapproximationtosuchobjectiverationality(Simon
[90],p.198).
TheimportanceofSimon’sideaswasexplicitlyrecognizedbyDanielKah-
nemaninhisNobelprizelecture:
...,we(TverskyandKahneman)exploredthepsychologyofintuitive
beliefsandchoicesandexaminedtheirboundedrationality.Herbert
A.Simon[88,92]hadproposedmuchearlierthatdecisionmakers
shouldbeviewedasboundedlyrational,andhadoﬀeredamodel
inwhichutilitymaximizationwasreplacedbysatisﬁcing.Ourre-
DEMO,byexploring
thesystematicbiasesthatseparatethebeliefsthatpeoplehaveand
thechoicestheymakefromtheoptimalbeliefsandchoicesassumed
inrational-agentmodels.Therational-agentmodelwasourstarting
pointandthemainsourceofournullhypotheses.(Kahneman[58],p.
1449,namesinitalicsadded).
Itisclearthattheconceptofboundedrationalityhasbeencriticalto
thestudyofjudgmentanddecisionmakinginemphasizingtheimportanceof
cognitivelimitationsrelativetotheunlimitedpowersassumedbymaximizing
modelsineconomics.However,itisalsothecasethattheconcepthasbeen
thesubjectofmisinterpretation.
Forexample,inanextensivereviewwrittenforeconomistsandentitled
“Whyboundedrationality?”Conlisk[14]citesmanystudies(andreviewsof
studies)wherepeople’sjudgmentsanddecisionsviolateeconomicreasoning.
Thesestudies,DEMO,attesttotheimportanceofbounded
rationality.However,justbecausepeopleareobservedtomakesystematicer-
rors,itisnotclearthattheseareaconsequenceofboundedrationalityper
se,i.e.,oflimitationsincognitivecapacity(notetheexactwordingofthe
Simonquoteabove).Forexample,imaginethatwhenusingpastperformance
topredictfutureperformanceofanathlete,apersonfailstoallowforregres-
siontowardthemean.Isthisduetolackofcomputationalcapacity?Ifit
is,thenoneshouldpredictthatnohumancouldmakethecorrectjudgment.
40RobinM.Hogarth
Andyet,weknowthatmakingacognitiveadjustmenttoapredictiontoal-
lowforregressioneﬀectsrequireslittlecognitiveeﬀort.Allitreallyrequires
istheabilitytorecognizethatoneisdealingwithacaseinvolvingregres-
sioneﬀects,somethingthatcaneitherexplicitlytaughtorlearnedthrough
experience(Nisbett,Fong,Lehman,&Cheng[77]).Moreover,ourabilityto
recognize(situations,faces,patterns,andsoon)isonecognitiveabilitythat
couldalmostbeconsideredunbounded(Goldstein&Gigerenzer[36]).
DEMO,IwouldalsoarguethatKahnemanwassellinghisandTver-
sky’sworkshortbydescribingitas“mappingboundedrationality.”True,
theywereexploringdiﬀerencesbetweensystematicresponsesandnormative
prescriptions.But,mostoftheirenlighteningexperimentaldemonstrations
didnotexploitboundsoncognitiveprocesses.Indeed,thesimplicityoftheir
paradigmaticproblemscharacterizedtheirappealandfacilitatedtheirdiﬀu-
sionthroughthescientiﬁccommunity3 .Indeed,asKahneman([58],p.1469)
himselfacknowledges,manyerroneousresponsestotheseproblemsarosebe-
causepeoplesimplyansweredadiﬀerent(oreasier)problemthanthatasked
bytheexperimenters.Sure,cognitiveprocesseshaveacostbutthisdoesnot
meanthattheyare“bounded”relativetothetaskathand.Inmanycases,
DEMO
“unboundedlyirrational.”
Finally,Simon’sinsightthatdecisionmakersdonotpossessunbounded
cognitivecapacitieswasfundamentalinallowingpeopletoconceiveofalter-
nativemodelsofdecisionmaking.Thespiritofthesemodels,however,isnot
justtodocumenttheconsequencesofboundsbutasearchtomakemodels
moreveridicalfromadescriptiveviewpoint.Indeed,thisviewpointpermeates
practiceinwhatisnowcalled“behavioraleconomics.”
3.Tounderstanddecisionmaking,understandingthetaskis
moreimportantthanunderstandingthepeople. Inmanyways,much
oftheresearchintheﬁeldatteststothisstatement.Atonelevel,itisrelated
totheideaofboundedrationalityinthatorganismsdonothave,apriori,
unboundedcomputationalresourcesthatallowthemtodealwithaninﬁnite
varietyoftasks.Howthen,dotheyhavethecapacitytodealwithdiﬀerent
DEMO?
Theexplanationisevolutionaryinnature.ItwasemphasizedbyBrunswik
[5]andechoedbySimon[89].Thekeyideaisthatthespeciﬁcresponse(or
decision)mechanismsthatorganismsdevelopareconditionedbythekindsof
environmentstheyhaveencounteredinthepast.Thus,tounderstandwhat
organismscanandcannotdo,itisimportanttostudywhattheyhavebeen
requiredtodobythesituationswithwhichtheyhavebeenconfronted.Or-
ganismsadapttotheenvironmentstheyinhabitandthusunderstandingthe
3 Thisisnottrue,ofcourse,ofalltheTversky-Kahnemanproblems.Some,for
example,explicitlyexploitdiﬃcultiesofcomputationtohidethedetectionof
dominanceinchoiceproblems(see,e.g.,Tversky&Kahneman[101])DEMO
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5041
natureofthetaskstheyfaceleadstounderstandinghowtheyhavelearned
tocopewiththosetasks.
Therearemanyexamplesoftheseprinciplesintheliterature.Letme
citeafew.First,considertheextensiveworkconductedbyJohnPayneand
hiscolleagueson“contingentdecisionmaking”(Payne[80];Payne,Bettman,
&Johnson[82]).Theseresearchershaveprovidedextensivedocumentation
ofhowsimpledecisionstrategiesreﬂectandadapttoenvironmentalcharac-
teristics.Second,thereisasubstantialliteratureonvariousformsofprefer-
encereversalswherebydiﬀerentpresentationsofthesamejudgmentorchoice
problemsleadtosystematicchangesindecisions.Ireferheretotheclassic
preferencereversalphenomenonthathasbeenstudiedineconomics(Grether
&Plott[37]),framingeﬀectsinchoice(Kahneman&DEMO,seealso
below),evaluatingoptionstogetherwithalternativesorinisolation(Hsee,
Loewenstein,Blount,&Bazerman[56]),andsoon.Third,thereisaclassof
DEMO
probabilitiesinducessystematicchangesinresponses(Tversky&Kahneman
[100];Gigerenzer&Hoﬀrage[32]).
Onefeaturethatalmostalltheseproblemshaveincommonisthatpeople
aresensitivetotheinformationprocessingcostsofdiﬀerenttaskstructures(or
problemformulations).Theytendtotakethe“lesscostly”options.However,
andasnotedabove,thisdoesnotmeanthatthemorecostlysolutionsare
beyondcomputationalbounds.
4.Levelsofaspirationorreferencepointsandlossaversion. A
keynotiondiscussedbySimon[88]isthatoflevelsofaspirationorreference
points(seealsoSiegel[87]).InSimon’sapproach,aspirationlevelswereseen
tobeamechanismbywhichdecisiontasksaresimpliﬁedsothatpeoplecan
DEMO(hisspeciﬁcexampleconcernedsettingthe
sellingpriceofahouse).
Fromabroaderpsychologicalperspective,theaspirationlevelorreference
pointideaisrelatedtothemorepervasiveperceptualphenomenonofﬁgure
andground.Inanygivenenvironment,weneedtofocusattentionandtend
todosoonwhatissalienttherebysimultaneouslyseparatingtheperceptual
ﬁeldintowhatissalient(ﬁgure)andwhatisnot(ground).Althoughthisis
clearlyagenerallyadaptivemechanism(itishardtothinkofanalternative),
itcomesatacost.Salienceisrelativeandwhatissalientcanchangewith
shiftsintheground.
Theliteratureisrepletewithexamplesofthisphenomenonintasksin-
volvingbothchoiceandinference.Fortheformer,considerdemonstrationsof
Weber’srule,e.g.,$10mightseemalargesumwhenpairedwith$20butsmall
whenpairedwith$2,000.Forthelatter,theattributionofcauseisgreatlyaf-
fectedbyassumptionsconcerningthecausalbackground(Einhorn&Hogarth
[25];McGill[75]).
ThereisnodoubtthatKahnemanandTversky’s[61]prospecttheory
paperhasbeenoneofthehighlightsofthetotalresearchprogram.Inmy
DEMO,thekeyinsightinthiswaslinkingthenotionsofreferencepoints
42RobinM.Hogarth
andlossaversion,i.e.,that“lossesloomlargerthangains.”Byitself,loss
aversionisacriticalconcept.However,allowingthedeﬁnitionofgainsand
lossestovaryasafunctionofreferencepointsoraspirationlevelsfacilitatedall
kindsofpredictionsofso-calledframingeﬀectsgoingfromstunningswitches
inriskattitudesinlaboratoryexperimentstoobservationsinﬁeldstudies
(Kahneman&Tversky[62];Johnson&Goldstein[57]).
5.Useofheuristicrules. Nodiscussionoftheﬁeldofjudgmentand
decisionmakingcouldavoidreferencetoso-called“heuristic”rules.Theuseof
theword“heuristic”inthissenseoriginateswithTverskyandKahneman[99]
intheirfamousSciencepaperon“heuristicsandbiases”(seealsoKahneman,
Slovic,&Tversky[60]).TheclaimmadebyTverskyandKahnemanwasquite
simpleandmeasured:Inmakingcertainkindsofjudgmentsunderuncertainty,
peopleusespeciﬁcdecisionrulesthat,although,oftenaccurateanduseful,can
sometimesleadtosystematicerrorsrelativetonormativemodels.
TverskyandKahnemanspeciﬁedthreeheuristics(representativeness,
DEMO,andanchoring-and-adjustment)aswellassimpleexamples
ofhowtheuseofeachheuristiccouldleadjudgmentastray.Theexamples
wereincrediblycompellingand,Ibelieve,itwasthisfactthatturnedmany
scientistsintoeitheradvocatesofheuristicsandbiases(e.g.,Nisbett&Ross
[78])orconﬁrmedskeptics.Amongtheobjectionsraisedagainsttheapproach
weﬁndtwomainpositions:TverskyandKahnemanusedinappropriatenor-
mativemodelsinassessingbiases(see,e.g.,Cohen,[13])andtheirheuristic
“models”werenotpreciselyspeciﬁed(Gigerenzer[30].)Myownviewisthat
TverskyandKahnemanhaddevelopedincrediblyimportantinsightsabout
DEMO
orythatspeciﬁedmorepreciselytheinteractionbetweenheuristicsandtasks
(seeHogarth[46];Kahneman&Frederick[59]).
Onahistoricalnote,itshouldbeaddedthatTverskyandKahneman’s
earlyworkonbiasesinducedanimportantchangeinworkonjudgmentsunder
uncertainty.Beforetheirinvestigations,mostworkonthistopiccenteredon
howwellpeople’sjudgmentsdidordidnotmatchstatisticalreasoning.For
DEMO,in1967,PetersonandBeachhadpublishedaninﬂuentialreviewon
thistopicentitled“Manasanintuitivestatistician”andWardEdwardsand
hiscolleagueshadconductedextensiveinvestigationsofpeople’sability(and
inability)tomakejudgmentsthatwereinaccordwithBayes’theorem(see,
e.g.,Edwards[22]).TverskyandKahnemanshockedtheirreaderswiththeir
howwell results(whichwerebad!)butreorientedinvestigationsbyasking how
peoplemakejudgmentsunderuncertainty.Thefocusbecametheprocessthat
producedtheoutcomes.
Thatsimpleheuristicscanalsoproducegoodjudgmentsanddecisionshas
beenthesubjectofworkbyGerdGigerenzerandhiscolleagues(Gigerenzer&
Goldstein[31];DEMO,Todd,&theABCGroup[34]).Theyhaveshown
empiricallyhowcertainsimplerulesofdecisionmakingcanperformremark-
ablywellcomparedtomorecomplex,algorithmicbenchmarks.However,as
yettheirworkisincomplete(inthesamemannerasthatofTverskyand
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5043
Kahneman)inthattheyhavenotheoryofhow,whyandwhenenvironmental
factorsinﬂuencetheperformanceoftheirmodels(cf.,Hogarth&Karelaia
[52,53,54]).
DEMO Perhapsoneof
themostimportant,practicalresultsisthat,comparedtounaidedhuman
judgment,simplelinearmodelsareremarkablyeﬀectiveatmakingpredic-
tions.Thishasbeendemonstratedtimeandagain,andinmanydiﬀerent
contexts(Meehl[76];Sawyer[85];Goldberg[35];Dawes,Faust&Meehl[18];
Kleinmuntz[66];Groveetal.[38]).Althoughcaseshavebeenreportedwhere
humanshaveoutpredictedmodels(see,e.g.,Libby[70]),theseareexceptional.
Atonelevel,theseﬁndingsmightbeattributedtothenotionofbounded
rationalityinthesensethatthehumanmindisnotaseﬃcientasacomputerin
makingcalculations.Ontheotherhand,thefactthatsimplemodelsexhibit
superiorpredictiveabilityisalsoastatementaboutourlackofknowledge
concerningtheenvironmentsinwhichpredictionsaremade.Formanytasks,
itturnsoutthatalthoughlinearmodelshavehighercorrelationswiththe
criterionthanhumanjudgments,thecorrelationsarenotthatimpressive(see,DEMO
e.g.,Camerer[7]).Inaddition,peopletypicallywanttousemoreinformation
(i.e.,variables)intheirjudgmentsthanthemodels.
Inadditiontothesuperiorityofsimplemodelsoverhumanjudgment,
muchworkshowsthatsimplelinearmodelsareoftensuperiortomorecomplex
algorithmsforpredictingimportantcriteria(DEMO&Corrigan[17];Einhorn
&Hogarth[23]).Ireturntothisbelow.
Theﬁndingsofmodelsuperiorityhavenotalwaysbeenembracedwiththe
enthusiasmonemightsuspectgiventheirpracticalpotential.Onereason,I
believe,isthatinvestigatorshavebeentooquicktocelebratetheapparent
superiorityofmodelsandhavefailedtounderstandtheconditionsunder
whichhumanjudgmentcanbeusedasanadjuncttooreveninsteadofmodel
DEMO,severalresearchershaverecognizedthatthe
issueisnotoneof“modelsvs.humans”butofhowonecanbestcombine
humanandstatisticalmodels(see,e.g.,Blattberg&Hoch[2];Kleinmuntz
[66];Yaniv&Hogarth[105]).Paradoxically,itcouldbearguedthatfairly
complexexpertsystemsbuiltwithinthecognitivesciencetraditionhavebeen
betteracceptedthanthesimplermodelsdevelopedinjudgmentanddecision
makingresearch.Itshouldbenoted,however,thatwhereasresearchersinthe
latterﬁeldhavebeenquicktopinpointdeﬁcienciesinhumanreasoning,the
buildersofexpertsystemsimplicitlyreveretheoutputsofhumanjudgment
byholdingitupasacriterion(cf.,Camerer&DEMO).
Above,IreferredtotheworkofGigerenzerandhiscolleagues.Contrary
tothesimplemodelsdiscussedabove,theirmodelsdonotinvolveaverages
orsumsofseveralvariablesbuttendtobelexicographicsuchthatdecisions
frequentlydependonasinglevariable.Thus,thekeyaspectoftheirwork
involvesdecisionsto“choosethebest”and“ignoretherest.”Animportant
implicationoftheirworkistheﬁndingthattherearemanysituationsin
44RobinM.Hogarth
whichmodelsthatare“fastandfrugal”(i.e.,easytoimplementandusing
littleinformation)arequiteeﬀective4.
7.Searchforconﬁrmation. Intheirclassicstudiesofhumaninference,
Bruner,Goodnow,andAustin[4]notedwhattheycalledthe“thirstforcon-
DEMO
lems,peoplehaveastrongtendencytosearchforinformationthatconﬁrms
theirfavoredhypotheses.ThistendencywasbrilliantlyexploitedbyWason’s
classicfour-cardand“2-4-6”problemsthatdemonstratedthatpeoplehavea
strongproclivityforseekingconﬁrmingevidence(Wason[103,104]).
Theseﬁndingsledtotwointerestingdevelopments.Theﬁrstwasapurely
theoreticalinvestigationbyKlaymanandHa[65].Acceptingthefactthat
peopledohaveatendencytoseekconﬁrmation,theyquestionedprevious
researchbyaskingwhether,infact,thiswasdysfunctional.Speciﬁcally,they
conductedataskanalysisoftheeﬀectivenessofadecisionstrategythatthey
labeledthe“positivetestheuristic”-i.e.,astrategythatseekstoprovethat
one’sideasarecorrect-andshowedthat,underawiderangeofenvironmental
conditions,thisisoptimal.Ineﬀect,theyarguethatthetaskusedbyWason
DEMO
Theseconddevelopmentwastoquestiontheexperimentalgeneralityof
theWasontask.Speciﬁcally,considertheclassicWasontask:
Imaginethatyouhaveinfrontofyoufourcardsthatshow(fromleft
toright)theletterA,theletterB,thenumber4,andthenumber7.
Youareinformedthateachcardhasaletterononesideandanumber
ontheother.Youarealsoinformedoftherule,“Ifacardhasavowel
ononeside,ithasanevennumberontheotherside.”Giventhefour
cardsinfrontofyou,whichandonlywhichcardswouldyouneedto
turnovertoverifywhethertheruleiscorrect?
Asiswellknown,themostfrequentanswerstothisquestionaretheletter
Aandthenumber4orjusttheletterA.Intestingaruleoftheformifpthen
q,DEMO(totestthatpandqdobothco-occur)and7(toverify
thatpandnot-qdonotco-occur).Formostpeople,however,thisproblemis
quiteopaque.
Nowconsiderthefollowingvariationoftheproblemthathasexactlythe
samelogicalstructure:
Imaginethatyouworkinabarandhavetoenforcetherulethat,in
ordertodrinkalcoholicbeverages,patronsmustbeovertwenty-one
4 GigerenzerandGoldstein[31]alsodocumentintriguingexamplesofwhatthey
callthe“lessismore”eﬀect,i.e.,wherethepredictiveabilityofpeoplewithlittle
knowledgeisbetterthanthatofpeoplewithmoreknowledge.Interestingly,earlier
Simon[91]notedthatinaworldwhereattentionisascarceresource“information
maybeanexpensiveluxury,DEMO
towhatisunimportant.Wecannotaﬀordtoattendtoinformationsimplybecause
itisthere”(Simon[91],p.13).
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5045
yearsold.Youobservefour“young”peopleinthebar:theﬁrstis
drinkingbeer;thesecondisdrinkingCoke;thethirdistwenty-ﬁve
yearsold;andthefourthissixteenyearsold.Whomdoyoucheck
inordertoverifythattheruleisbeingenforced?(Gigerenzer&Hug
[33]).
Mostpeoplehavelittlediﬃcultyansweringthisquestioncorrectly,i.e.,
theywouldchecktheﬁrstandfourthpersons.Whathappenshere,ofcourse,
isthatthecontextoftheproblemstructurestheproblemfortherespondent
suchthatthe“correct”solutionseemsobvious.Exactlywhythishappensis
acontroversialissueintheliterature.However,Ishallreturntothisexample
below.
DEMO Whatisriskandhowdo
peopleperceiveit?Fortyorsoyearsago,mostpeoplethoughtofriskin
strictlyconsequentialterms,i.e.,theprobabilityofanegativeeventoccurring
andtheamountoftheassociatedloss.Thus,whenexplainingrisksof,say,
newtechnologiestothepublic,themostimportantissuewastoensurethat
probabilitiesoflosswere“correctly”understood.Itwasalsothoughtthat
studyinghowpeopledealwithgamblesinlaboratorysettingswouldilluminate
howtheyconceiveandfacerisksineverydaylife.
Startinginthe1970s,theseideaschangeddramatically.First,thework
on“heuristicsandbiases”questionedwhetherpeoplecouldunderstandthe
meaningofprobabilitiesinriskanalysis(Slovic,Fischhoﬀ,&Lichtenstein
[96]).Second,alargeresearchprogram,thatinvolvedthousandsofrespon-
dentsfromdiﬀerentwalksoflifeandcountrieswhoansweredmanybatchesof
questions,revealednewinsightsintothenatureofrisk.Speciﬁcally,thispsy-
chometricapproachfactoranalyzedassessmentsofmanyrisksandrevealed
twoimportantdimensionsorfactors(Slovic[93]).Oneistheextenttowhicha
DEMO,e.g.,nervegasaccidents
inducealotofdread;caﬀeineandaspirindonot.Thesecondfactoristhe
extenttowhichthetechnologyisunknownorunfamiliartopeople,e.g.,auto
accidentsdonotrepresentanunknownrisk;however,DNAtechnologydoes.
Amajorimpactofthesestudiesistherealizationthatrisk-asunderstood
bypeopleintheireverydaylives-isacomplex,multidimensionalconceptthat
cannotbedescribedsimplyby,forexample,postulatingdiﬀerentshapesof
utilityfunctions.Recentworkinthisarea,therefore,hassoughttounderstand
howpeoplecometoassessriskindiﬀerentcircumstances,howinformation
aboutriskcanbestbetransmitted,andthemannerinwhichitisorisnot
perceiveddiﬀerentlybydiﬀerentgroups,DEMO,substantiveexpertsvs.novices,
ormenvs.women(seeSlovic[94]).Thenotionthatriskisheavilydependent
onfeelingshasgainedincreasingrecognitioneventhoughitcannotbesaid
thatthishasledtoelegantmodelsofbehavior(Loewenstein,Hsee,Weber,&
DEMO)-seealsobelow.
9.Theconstructionofpreference. Withinthenormativeframework,
peoplemakedecisionsaccordingtopreferencesthatareconceptualizedinthe
46RobinM.Hogarth
formofutilityfunctions.Inanas-ifapproach,itisconvenienttoimaginethat
peoplesimplylookuptheappropriatevaluesoftheirutilityfunctionswhen
makingchoices.Ifthiswerethecase,however,itwouldbehardtounderstand
howpeoplecouldbesubjecttopreferencereversalsandotherinconsistencies
inrevealedpreferences.
Theviewadoptedbyseveralresearchersisthat,insteadofconsultingex-
istingpreferencefunctions,DEMO
ofthetaskswithwhichtheyareconfronted(Slovic,Griﬃn,&Tversky[97];
Payne,Bettman,&Johnson[81]).Thenotionisnotthatallpreferencesare
constructedfromnothingbutratherthatpeopleonlyhavequitegeneralno-
tionsoftheirpreferences,e.g.,althoughtheyprefermoretolessmoneyand
lesstomoreeﬀort,theydonothavepreciserepresentationsoftheirhypo-
theticalutilityfunctionsandsocannotexecuteprecisetradeoﬀs.Therefore,
whenconfrontingspeciﬁctasksthatrequirepreciseanswers(consider,e.g.,
willingness-to-payjudgments)theprecisionoftheirpreferenceswillbeaf-
DEMO
whichtheyarerequiredtorespondorthepresence/absenceofcomparison
points(Hsee[55]).
Thepositiontakenheremakesmuchsenseanditisperhapssurprising
thatresearcherstooksolongtoreachit.Simplystated,itgivesmeaningto
thenotionthatpeoplehavepreferencesthat,dependingontheirexperience,
canbedescribedasvaryinginlooseness.Ifone’spreferencesarelooseand
havetobeexpressedpreciselyinspeciﬁccircumstances,irrelevanttaskeﬀects
shouldbeexpectedtooccur.If,ontheotherhand,preferencesarenotloose,
theyshouldberelativelyimpervioustohowtheyareelicited.Thus,experience
inspeciﬁcdomainsshouldleadtoless“looseness”andgreaterinvarianceto
irrelevantfactors.Atthesametime,onemightexpectﬁnancialincentivesto
havethesamekindsofeﬀectsbutthishasnotalwaysbeenfoundtobethe
DEMO(Camerer&Hogarth[9]).
Relatedtothistopicistheimportantﬁndingthatpeopleseektoavoid
makingtradeoﬀs(see,e.g.,Luce,Payne,&Bettman[74]).Therearetwo
DEMO:ﬁrst,tradeoﬀscanbehardtoexecutefromacognitiveviewpoint;
andsecond,makingtradeoﬀsisdiﬃcultemotionally.Thisraisestheissues
ofhowmuchpeoplereallylosebyavoidingtradeoﬀs(intermsofmaking
optimaldecisions)andwhethertheycaneverlearntomakecertainkindsof
tradeoﬀs.Tobeableanswerbothofthesequestions,however,onewouldneed
anextensiveecologicalanalysis.
10.Theroleofemotions,aﬀect,andintuition. Asnotedabove,the
studyofjudgmentanddecisionmakingowesmuchtoformalmodelsofdecision
makingineconomicsandstatistics(e.g.,expectedutilityandsubjectively
expectedutility)aswellasthecognitiverevolutioninpsychology.Thusthe
DEMO
explanationswithlittleapparentinterestinthetopicsofemotion,aﬀect,and
intuition.Thus,forexample,severalkeypapersdemonstratedhowcognitive
explanationscouldaccountforphenomenathatwerepreviouslythoughttobe
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5047
motivationalinorigin(seee.g.,Brehmer[3],forwhyconﬂictsaresometimes
hardtoresolve,andEinhorn&Hogarth[24],forbiasesinlearning).
Recentyears,however,DEMO
ofemotions,aﬀect,andintuitionindecisionmaking.Itisthusilluminating
totracetheoriginsofthistrend.
In1968,RobertZajoncpublishedaremarkablepaperinwhichhedocu-
mentedaphenomenonknownasthemereexposureeﬀect,theﬁndingthat
peopleacquirepositiveaﬀecttostimulithroughmereexposure.Hisobserva-
tionsstartedbynotingthatpeopleseemtohavegreaterpositiveaﬀectfor
morefrequentlyoccurringobjects.Heillustratedthisbyexaminingwords.
Forexample,hepresentedpeoplewithlistsofantonyms,thatis,pairsof
wordsthathaveoppositemeaningssuchasforward/backward,high/low,or
on/oﬀ.Hethenaskedhissubjectstostatewhichwordineachpairhad“the
morefavorablemeaning,representedthemoredesirableobject,DEMO,stateof
aﬀairs,characteristic,etc.”(Zajonc[106],p.5)Zajoncalsodeterminedthe
frequencywithwhicheachwordwasusedinEnglish.Hisresultsshoweda
stunningrelationbetweenpreferencesandrelativefrequencies.Forexample,
atleast97percentofhissubjectspreferredforwardtobackward,highto
low,andontooﬀ.InEnglish,theﬁrstofeachofthesewordsappearsmore
frequentlythanthesecond.Forexample,forwardisapproximately5.4times
morefrequentthanbackward.Theanalogousﬁguresfortheotherpairsare
1.4and8.3,respectively5.
Zajoncwentontoprovidefurtherdemonstrationsoftheseeﬀectsusing
fakewordssaidtobeTurkish,Chinese-likecharacters,andphotographsof
DEMO
tifystimuliisdegradedtochancelevels,positiveaﬀectisalsoafunctionof
mereexposure(Kunst-Wilson&Zajonc[67]).
Whydoesthisaﬀectoccur?Notingthatnoneofthestimuliinvestigatedin-
volvenegativeconsequences,Zajoncproposedthatincreasingfamiliaritywith
stimulithatarenotharmfulinducespositiveaﬀectthroughasimpleprocess
oflearning.Inotherwords,itismoreimportanttolearnwhensomethingnew
ispotentiallyharmfulordangerousthanwhenitisnot.Thus,ifsomething
newisnotperceivedasnegative,itsdefaultvalueispositive.Moreover,the
moreitisseen,themorepositiveaﬀectisreinforced.
Zajonc’sworkhasprofoundimplicationsforhowpeopleacquireprefer-
ences,atopicthatisclearlyoutsidethescopeofeconomicsandthathas
hardlybeentouchedbyresearchersinjudgmentanddecisionmaking.How-
DEMO,assimplecasualobservationcaninformus,manyﬁrmsbetmuchmoney
intheiradvertisingcampaignsontheveracityofthemereexposureeﬀect.
Consider,inparticular,advertisementsthatsimplyemphasizethenameofa
productoraﬁrmwithoutprovidinganyinformationaboutparticularprod-
ucts,e.g.,Benettonor,say,Toshiba.Heretheadvertisingstrategysimply
5 Thefrequenciesaretakenfromtheso-calledLcountofThorndikeandLorge[98].
48RobinM.Hogarth
consistsofreinforcingthefamiliarityofthebrandnamethroughrepeated
exposure.
Ihaveoftenwonderedwhydecisionresearchershavenotpursuedtheim-
plicationsofthemereexposureeﬀect.Inparticular,thephenomenonimplies
thattacitlearningisanimportantsourceofpreferencesandthatonemight
beabletopredictaperson’spreferencesbyunderstandingtheexperiencesto
whichheorshehasbeenexposed.Onereasoncouldbethelackofanor-
mativemodelofpreferenceupdatingtoprovideabenchmark.Forinstance,
theexistenceofBayes’theoremprovidesaclearbenchmarkforstudyinghow
DEMO
thestandard(see,e.g.,Hogarth&Einhorn[51]).Lackingacounterpartfor
preferences,itislessobvioushowtoproceed6.
Finally,buildingonhisworkonthemereexposureeﬀect,in1980Za-
joncchallengedthethenovertlycognitively-orienteddecisionresearchersby
suggestingthat“preferencesneednoinferences”orthataﬀect(acquiredsub-
consciouslythroughmereexposure)wasoftenthedriverofjudgmentand
choiceasopposedtomorecognitiveforces.Asdiscussedbelow,Zajonc’swork
hasgainedsigniﬁcantattention.
Injudgmentanddecisionresearch,theconceptofintuition—althoughnot
neglected—hasoftenhadnegativeconnotations.The“intuitivepredictions”
ofclinicians,forexample,DEMO
statisticalmodels.Similarly,intuitionisassociatedwithprocessesthatcause
peopletomakeerrorsinjudgmentsunderuncertainty(cf.,Tversky&Kahne-
man[100])aswellasunwarrantedconﬁdenceinjudgment(Kahneman,Slovic,
&DEMO).
Onenotableexception,however,hasbeentheworkofHammondwho
—buildingonBrunswik’s[5]perceptualmodel—conceivedofmodesof
judgmentthatcanvaryonacontinuumfromhighlyintuitiveatoneend
tohighlyanalyticalattheother.Inadditiontothiscognitivecontinuum,
Hammondalsopostulatedthattasksconfrontedintheenvironmentvaryon
theextenttowhichtheyinduceintuitiveoranalyticalthought.Moreover,
whenmodesofcognitioncoincidewithdemandsoftasks,judgmentstend
tobebetter(usingacorrespondencecriterion).Inanintriguingstudyof
judgmentsmadebyhighwayengineers,Hammondandhiscolleaguesfound
supportingevidenceforthisposition(Hammond,Hamm,Grassia,&Pearson
[42]).
TheideaspioneeredbyZajonc(seeabove)hadincreasinginﬂuencein
socialpsychologyinthe1980sandculminatedinwhataregenerallyknown
asdual-processtheoriesofthought(Chaiken&Trope[12]).Thekeyideahere
6 Thenotionthatonemightthinkofmodelingthelearningofpreferences(andthus
DEMO)raisedsomeinterestingdiscussionsattheconference.For
economists,preferencesaretypicallyassumedtobeexogenousandﬁxed.Thus,
itseemsoddeventoconsidertheacquisitionofpreferencesandhowthesemight
change.
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5049
isthatthoughthascomponentsofwhichpeopleareaware(conscious)and
ofwhichtheyarenotfullyaware(subconscious)andthatpeoplecanprocess
informationintwodistinctways.
ThisdistinctionisclearlymadebySeymourEpstein[28]whohasdistin-
guishedbetweenwhathelabelsexperientialandrationalmodesofthought.
AsEpsteinstates,theexperientialsystemisdrivenbyemotions,DEMO,
andautomatic.It
isassumedtohaveaverylongevolutionaryhistoryandtooperatein
non-humanaswellashumananimals...itisacrudesystemthatau-
tomatically,rapidly,eﬀortlessly,andeﬃcientlyprocessesinformation
....Althoughitrepresentseventsprimarilyconcretelyandimagisti-
cally,itiscapableofgeneralizationandabstractionthroughtheuseof
prototypes,metaphors,scripts,andnarratives.(Epstein[28],p.715).
Therationalsystem,ontheotherhand,
isadeliberative,eﬀortful,abstractsystemthatoperatesprimarilyin
DEMO
iscapableofveryhighlevelsofabstractionandlong-termdelayof
gratiﬁcation.(Epstein[28],p.715).
AsevidenceforthesetwomodesEpsteinpointstothefactthat,when
emotionsarearoused,peopletendtoeschewlogicalarguments,emotionsmay
themselvesbetriggeredbypreconsciousthoughts,andthatthereisanimpor-
tantdiﬀerencebetweenlearningintuitivelythroughexperienceandintellec-
tuallythroughinstructionoranalysis.Healsonotesthatalthoughpeopleare
capableofrationalanalysistheyarestillheavilyinﬂuencedbystorytelling,
theappealofpicturesoverwordsorstatistics,andsuperstitiousthinking.In
theexperimentalworkconductedtosupportthisposition,heleansheavily
onvignettescreatedbyTverskyandKahnemantoshowthatpeoplecanrec-
ognizewhentheyareusingthediﬀerentmodelsofthought(Epstein,Lipson,DEMO
Holstein,&Huh[29])aswellassomeintriguingchoicetasks(Kirkpatrick&
Epstein[64];Denes-Raj&Epstein[19]).
ItisimportanttoemphasizethatEpstein(likeHammond)DEMO
thatpeoplereasononlywitheithertheexperientialorrationalmode.Typ-
ically,reasoningwillstartwiththeexperientialmodeandbemodiﬁedby
therational,dependingoncircumstances.Asanexample,reconsiderthetwo
versionsoftheWasontaskdescribedabove.Intheabstractversion,itisdif-
ﬁculttothinkthroughthetaskbecause(unlesswearelogicians)wehaveno
appropriatemodel.Moreover,ourrationalthoughtsystemmaynotbeupto
solvingtheproblemappropriately.Fortheversionsetinthebar,however,
wedohaveexperiencesthatprovidea“script”(seeEpsteinquoteabove)for
thinkingthroughthetask.Thisismucheasierforusandwecanreachthe
correctsolutionalmosteﬀortlessly.
HereIhavegivenmuchcredittoHammondandEpsteinbecausetheywere
pioneersinpromotingamorecomprehensiveviewofjudgmentanddecision
50RobinM.Hogarth
makingasinvolvingmorethanjustcognitivecomponents.Similarly,Slovic
andhiscollaboratorshaveprovidedmuchevidenceemphasizingtheroleof
aﬀectinjudgmentanddecisionmaking(particularlyconcerningtheassess-
mentofrisk-seeabove).Indeed,Slovicandhiscolleagueshaverecentlymade
aforcefulargumentthatmanyjudgmentsaredrivenbyan“aﬀectheuristic”
(Slovic,Finucane,Peters,&MacGregor[95]).
Kahneman[58]hasalsocometoacceptthatjudgmentalprocessesare
theproductoftwosystemsofthought.Moreover,theintuitivecomponent
isnotonlylargebutquiteeﬀective.(Consideragainthetwoversionsofthe
Wasontaskdiscussedabove.)Whatisfascinatingisthefactthatmuchof
theinterestintheﬁeldwasstimulatedbyTverskyandKahneman’soriginal
demonstrationsthat“intuitive”processescouldleadpeopletomakeerroneous
judgments.TverskyandKahnemansawtheerrorsasameanstounderstand
theunderlyingprocessesofjudgment.Manyotherssawtheerrorsasagen-
eralindictmentofhumanjudgmentalabilities,aviewpointthatisnowbeing
rectiﬁed.
3 Some Major Challenges
Somuchforthepast!LetmenowturnmyattentiontowhatIconsiderthe
majorchallengesfacingtheﬁeldtoday.Theseconcernfourareas:(1)mak-
inglinkstoandincorporatingknowledgefromneuroscience;(2)developing
methodologiesthatcangeneralizelaboratoryﬁndings;(3)beingmoreeﬀective
athelpingpeoplemakedecisions;and(4)collaborationwithsisterdisciplines
DEMO
todevelop,ﬁrst,morecomprehensivetheoriesthatintegrateﬁndingsfrom
diﬀerentareas(e.g.,recognizingthatjudgmentanddecisionmakinginvolves
aﬀectiveaswellascognitivecomponents)and,second,moreexplicittheories
thatspecifytheconditionsunderwhichcertainmaineﬀects(e.g.,lossaversion
orambiguityavoidance)doordonotobtain.This,inturnrequiresthatmore
explicitattentionbepaidtounderstandinghowbehaviorinteractswiththe
diﬀerentkindsofenvironmentsinwhichitoccurs(cf.,thethirdkey“ideaor
ﬁnding”discussedabove).
Neuroscience. Ifoneconsidersjustthelastdecadeorso,DEMO
doubtthatthescientiﬁccommunityhasseenremarkableadvancesinunder-
standinghowthebrainfunctions.Whereaswecannotyetmeasureprecisely
whathappenswhenpeopleprocessinformation,anumberofmethodshave
revealedglimpsesofwhatourdescendantswillbeabletoseemoreclearly.
Theevidencecomesfromseveralsources:invasivestudiesofnonhumans
suchasratsandprimateswhosebrainshavemuchincommonwithhumans
(see,e.g.,LeDoux[68,DEMO);andnon-invasivestudiesofhumans.Someofthese
studiesinvolvetheopportunisticcollectionofdatafrompeoplewhohavepar-
ticularformsofbrainlesionsorwhosuﬀerfromillnessesassociatedwithspe-
ciﬁcpartsofthebrain(suchthatonecaninferwhatcapacitiesthesepeopleare
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5051
missing,e.g.,Damasio[15]);theothersarestudiesthatusebrainimagingtech-
nologiessuchastheelectro-encephalogrammethod(EEG),positronemission
topography(PET)andfunctionalmagneticresonanceimaging(DEMO)(fora
goodreview,seeCamerer,Loewenstein,&Prelec[10]).
Frommy—admittedlycursory—reviewofstudiesinthisarea,thegen-
eralpicturethatemergesisthatthebrainhasmanydiﬀerentsystemsand
thatdiﬀerentpartsarespecializedindiﬀerentfunctions.Theamygdala,for
exampleisanimportantrepositoryofemotionalreactionsthattheso-called
highercorticallevelsofthebrainmayormaynotbeabletocontrol.Diﬀerent
areasofthebrainseemtobeinvolvedwhenpeoplearethinkingaboutlosses
asopposedtogains;areasstimulatedinthinkingaboutambiguousprobabili-
tiesarediﬀerentfromthosewhereprobabilitiesareknown;familiarfacesare
matchedwithdiﬀerentpatternsofactivitiesthanunfamiliarfaces;andsoon
(Camereretal.,[10]).
Atthepresenttime,thisresearchisverymuchatanexploratorystageand
manyﬁndingscanberelatedtothenotionsofdual-processtheoriesofthought
(seeabove).Moreover,asmeasurementtechniquesimprove(andtheywill)I
suspectthatwewillhavearichstoreofinformationtosiftandinterpret.It
isveryexcitingandIexpectwewillhavemanysurprises.
Developingmethodologies. Mostresearchonjudgmentanddecision
makingisconductedwithcarefullydesignedexperiments.Showingthatex-
perimentalclaimsruleoutalternativeexplanationsisanimportantfeatureof
mostworkthatdemonstratesahighlevelofinternalvalidity.However,oneof
themostimportantresultsintheﬁeldistheimportanceofcontextualeﬀects
(consideragaintheexampleoftheWasontaskconsideredabove)andthis
naturallyraisesthequestionofexternalvalidity:Dotheresultsdemonstrated
inthelaboratoryapplyinnaturallyoccurringsettings?
Ataconceptuallevel,Ibelievethatwecansaythatthisproblemdoes
haveagoodsolution.Moreover,itisnotnew.Itisthenotionofrepresen-
tativedesignthatwasoriginallyelaboratedbyEgonBrunswik[5,6].Simply
stated,thinkofanexperiment-thatinvolvestheinteractionbetweenpartic-
ipantsandthetaskswithwhichtheyareconfronted-asasample.Towhat
extentdoesthissamplegeneralizetothepopulationinwhichweareinter-
ested?Clearly,thisdependsonestablishingthatthecharacteristicsofboth
DEMO
(e.g.,canbethoughtofasrandomsamples).Thereare,ofcourse,manystud-
iesinwhichpeoplehavelookedatdiﬀerenttypesofexperimentalparticipants,
e.g.,studentsandprofessionals.However,themajorgapliesinthesampling
oftasks.
DEMO,Dhami,Hertwig,andHoﬀrage[20]madeathorough
reviewoftheconceptofrepresentativedesignanddiﬃcultiesthathavebeen
encounteredinitsuse.Astheyargue,thereissomeinterestinseekingtogo
beyondthelaboratoryandtostudydecisionmakingwhereitoccurs(see,e.g.,
Lipshitz,Klein,Orasanu,&Salas[72]).However,perhapsthegreatestobstacle
52RobinM.Hogarth
totheadoptionoftheprinciplesofrepresentativedesignbyresearchersisits
absencefromtextbooks-theconceptsarenottaughttostudents.
AfurtherpointmadebyDhamietal.isthatthedevelopmentofmodern
technologieshasfacilitatedtheabilitytosamplesituationsinarepresentative
manner.Letmementionacouple.First,theavailabilityofcomputersallowsus
toconstructsimulationmodelsandvirtualworldsthatfarexceedourdreams
ofafewdecadesago.Clearly,experimentsinsuchworldsarenotthesame
as“real”experience.However,clevermodelscangoalongwaytosimulating
DEMO,considerﬂightsimulatorsfor
teachingpilotsoraircrafttraﬃccontrollers(forawonderfulexample,see
Shanteau,Friel,Thomas,&Raacke[86]).
Second,thereexiststodayaplethoraofrecordinginstrumentsthatallow
DEMO,Irecentlyusedmobile
telephonestosendmessagestopeopleatrandommomentsoftheday(Hogarth
[50]).Onreceivingthemessages,respondentsansweredasmallquestionnaire
concerningthedecisionstheyweretakingatthosemoments.Inthisway,
Iobtainedarandomsampleoftheirdecisionbehavior.Whereas,therewas
muchthatwas“wrong”withthisstudy,Ibelieveitisindicativeofthekinds
ofsampleswewillbeabletocollectastechnologydevelops.(Foracleveruse
ofhead-mountedvideocameras,seeOmodei,McLennan,&Wearing[79]).
Finally,itisclearthatexperimenterscanalsousetheprinciplesofrepre-
sentativedesigntocollectdatainthelaboratory.Indeed,speciﬁcattemptsto
dojustthishavecastdoubtconcerningthegeneralityofsuchwell-established
phenomenaasoverconﬁdence(Gigerenzer,Hoﬀrage,&Kleinb¨olting[33]),
hindsightbias(Hoﬀrage,Hertwig,&Gigerenzer[45])andtheoverestimation
oflow-probabilityrisks(Hertwig,Barron,Weber,&Erev[43]).Inparticular,
thelatterworkemphasizestheimportantdistinctionbetweenhowpeopletyp-
icallyfacerisksinlaboratorytasks-whereallelementsareneatlysummarized
anddescribed-comparedtoexperiencingtheseastheydoanddonotoccur
acrosstime.Intheformer,smallprobabilityeventsaremadequitesalient.In
thelatter,bydeﬁnition,lowprobabilityeventsarerarelyencountered.
Helpingdecisionmaking. Itisgenerallyacceptedthatthetechnology
ofdecisionmaking—ordecisionanalysis(see,e.g.,Keeney&Raiﬀa[63])
—ismuchaheadofpeople’sabilitytoapplyit.Inmyview,thissuggests
DEMO
indicatewhensimpledecisionmodels—suchasrelyingononlyonevariable
ortakinganaverage—shouldbeused.Clearly,someworkhasalreadybeen
startedonthistopic.Indeed,Gigerenzeretal.[34]suggestedthemetaphorof
peoplepossessingan“adaptivetoolbox”fromwhichdecisionmakingtoolscan
betakenandusedasrequired.Whatweneed,however,isamorecomplete
listofthetoolsaswellasspeciﬁcationofthetasksforwhichtheyareandare
notsuited.
Second,ifweacceptthefactthatmostdecisionaretakenintuitively,it
seemsimportantthatwedevelopmeanstoeducatepeople’sintuitions.In
arecentbook(Hogarth[48])Ielaboratedonthisthemeandpresenteda
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5053
frameworkforsuggestinghowitmightbedone.Inaddition,Iamcurrently
engagedintryingtounderstandtheconditionsunderwhichpeopleshould
trusttheirintuitionsoranalysiswhenmakingdecisions(Hogarth[49]).
Itisnotmethodsorprinciplesofdecisionmakingthatourﬁeldlacks.It
ishowtobringthesetoolswithinreachofthosewhoneedthem.
Collaborationwithsisterdisciplines. Researchonjudgmentandde-
cisionmakinghasalwaysbeenaninterdisciplinaryﬁeld.Asinterestinthe
DEMO,therewillbeanaturaltendencyforgroupstosplitoﬀ
andcreatetheirownsub-ﬁelds.Iseethisasarealthreattoprogressbecause
itisattheintersectionofapproachesandtraditionsthatinnovationstend
tooccur(Campbell[11]).Therewillthereforebeaneedforsomescholarsto
playbridgingrolesbetweensub-ﬁeldssothatideascancirculatethroughout
thewholeﬁeld.
4 The Next 50 Years . . . ?
Ihopethatmydiscussionofthelastﬁftyyears-aswellascurrentchallenges
-hasconveyedsomesenseoftheinterestandexcitementthatthisﬁeldhas
generated.Judgmentanddecisionmakingareubiquitousandimportantac-
tivities.Moreover,contrarytoanideathatoneshouldonlystudydecisions
thatareimportant(orhaveeconomicconsequences),Iwanttostresstheim-
portanceofstudying“small”decisions.Therearetworeasons.First,ourlife
consistsmainlyofsmalldecisions.Thus,evenifeachsmalldecisionwetake
onlyhassmallconsequences,theaggregateconsequencesofthesmalldeci-
sionswefaceinourlifetimesishuge.Second,giventhatourdecisionmaking
habitshavebeenformedandautomatedbymakingsmalldecisions,itisun-
likelythatthesecanbesuppressedwhenwefacelargedecisions.Indeed,such
habitscanhavelargeimpactsonimportantissues.
Whatcanweexpecttoseeinthenext50years?Answeringthisquestion
isadauntingchallenge,soletmesimplysuggestthefollowing(almostbyway
ofasummary):
1.Closerlinksinourunderstandingofjudgmentanddecisionbehaviorbe-
tweenbiology(speciﬁcallyneuroscience)andpsychologicalmodels.This,
inturn,willinﬂuencehoweconomiststhinkabouttheseissues.
2.Greatermethodologicalsophisticationandmorerigorousstandardsfor
judgingexperimentalresults.Parenthetically,Iseethisasoneoftheben-
eﬁtstheﬁeldisalreadyexperiencingfromitscontactswithexperimental
economics.
3.Ingenuoususesoftechnologyforcapturingbehaviorinnaturallyoccurring
situationsand/orinexperimentallaboratories.
DEMO,however,Icannotsay
54RobinM.Hogarth
References
1.Balzer,W.K.,Doherty,M.E.,&O’Connor,R.(1989).Eﬀectsofcognitive
feedbackonperformance. PsychologicalBulletin,106,410-433.
2.Blattberg,R.C.,&Hoch,S.J(1990).Databasemodelsandmanagerialintu-
ition:50%model+50%manager. ManagementScience,36,887-899.
3.Brehmer,B.(1976).Socialjudgmenttheoryandtheanalysisofinterpersonal
conﬂict. PsychologicalBulletin,83,985-1003.
4.Bruner,J.,Goodnow,DEMO,&Austin,G.A.(1956). Astudyofthinking.New
York:Wiley.
5.Brunswik,E.(1952). DEMO:University
ofChicagoPress.
6.Brunswik,E.(1956). Perceptionandtherepresentativedesignofexperiments
(2nded.).Berkeley:UniversityofCaliforniaPress.
7.Camerer,DEMO(1981).Generalconditionsforthesuccessofbootstrapping
models. OrganizationalBehaviorandHumanPerformance,27,411-422.
8.Camerer,C.F.,&Johnson,E.J.(1991)DEMO
expertjudgment:Howcantheexpertsknowsomuchandpredictsobadly?
InK.A.Ericsson&J.Smith(Eds.), Towardageneraltheoryofexpertise:
Prospectsandlimits.Cambridge:CambridgeUniversityPress.
9.Camerer,C.F.,&Hogarth,R.M.(1999).Theeﬀectsofﬁnancialincentives
inexperiments:Areviewandcapital-labor-productionframework. Journalof
RiskandUncertainty,19,7-42.
10.Camerer,C.F.,Loewenstein,G.,&Prelec,D.(2004).Neuroeconomics:Why
economicsneedsbrains. ScandinavianJournalofEconomics,106(3),555-579.
11.Campbell,D.T.(1969).Ethnocentrismofdisciplinesandtheﬁsh-scalemodelof
omniscience.InM.Sherif&C.W.Sherif(Eds.), Interdisciplinaryrelationships
inthesocialsciences (DEMO).Xenia,OH:AldinePublishing.
12.Chaiken.S.,&Trope,Y.(Eds.).(1999). Dual-processtheoriesinsocialpsychol-
DEMO
13.Cohen,L.J.(1981).Canhumanirrationalitybeexperimentallydemonstrated?
BehavioralandBrainSciences,4,317-370.
14.Conlisk,J.(1996).Whyboundedrationality? JournalofEconomicLiterature,
XXXIV(June),669-700.
15.Damasio,A.R.(1964). Descartes’error:Emotion,DEMO,andthehumanbrain.
NewYork:Avon.
16.Dawes,R.M.(1979).Therobustbeautyofimproperlinearmodels. American
Psychologist,34,571-582.
17.Dawes,R.M.,&Corrigan,B.(1974).Linearmodelsindecisionmaking. Psy-
chologicalBulletin,81,95-106.
18.Dawes,R.M.,Faust,D.,&Meehl,P.E.Clinicalversusactuarialjudgment.
Science,243,1668-1674.
19.Denes-Raj,V.,&Epstein,S.(1994)DEMO
nalprocessing:Whenpeoplebehaveagainsttheirbetterjudgment. Journalof
PersonalityandSocialPsychology,66,819-829.
20.Dhami,M.K.,Hertwig,R.,&Hoﬀrage,DEMO(2004).Theroleofrepresentative
designinanecologicalapproachtocognition. PsychologicalBulletin,130(6),
959-988.
21.Edwards,W.(1954)DEMO PsychologicalBulletin,51,
380-417.
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5055
22.Edwards,W.(1968).Conservatisminhumaninformationprocessing.InB.
Kleinmuntz(Ed.), Formalrepresentationinhumanjudgment.NewYork:Wiley.
23.Einhorn,H,DEMO,&Hogarth,R.M(1975).Unitweightingschemesfordecision
making. OrganizationalBehaviorandHumanPerformance,13,171-192.
24.Einhorn,H,J.,&Hogarth,R.M.(1978).Conﬁdenceinjudgment:Persistence
oftheillusionofvalidity. PsychologicalReview,85,395-416.
25.Einhorn,H,J.,&Hogarth,R.M.(1986).Judgingprobablecause. Psychological
Bulletin,99,3-19.
26.Einhorn,H.J.,Kleinmuntz,D.N.,&Kleinmuntz,B.(1979).Linearregression
andprocesstracingmodelsofjudgment. PsychologicalReview,86,465-485.
27.Epstein,S.(1994).Integrationofthecognitiveandpsychodynamicunconscious.
DEMO,49,709-724.
28.Epstein,S.,Lipson,A.,Holstein,C.,&Huh,E.(1992)DEMO
negativeoutcomes:Evidencefortwoconceptualsystems. JournalofPersonality
andSocialPsychology,62,328-339.
29.Gigerenzer,G.(1996).Onnarrownormsandvagueheuristics:AreplytoKah-
nemanandTversky. PsychologicalReview,103,592-596.
30.Gigerenzer,G.,&Goldstein,D.G.(1996).Reasoningthefastandfrugalway:
Modelsofboundedrationality. PsychologicalReview,103,650-669.
31.Gigerenzer,G.,&Hoﬀrage,U.(1995).HoetoimproveBayesianreasoningwith-
outinstruction:Frequencyformats. PsychologicalReview,102,684-704.
32.Gigerenzer,G.,Hoﬀrage,U.,&Kleinb¨olting,H.(1991).Probabilisticmental
models:ABrunswikiantheoryofconﬁdence. PsychologicalReview,98,506-528.
33.Gigerenzer,G.,&Hug,K.(1992).Domainspeciﬁcreasoning:Socialcontracts,
cheating,andperspectivechange. Cognition,43,127-171.
34.Gigerenzer,G.,Todd,P.M.,&theABCResearchGroup.(1999). Simpleheuris-
ticsthatmakeussmart.NewYork:OxfordUniversityPress.
35.Goldberg,L.R.(1970).Manversusmodelofman:Arationale,plussomeevi-
dence,foramethodofimprovingonclinicalinferences, PsychologicalBulletin,
73,422-432.
36.Goldstein,D.G.,&Gigerenzer,G.(2002).Modelsofecologicalrationality:The
recognitionheuristic. PsychologicalReview,109(1),75-90.
37.Grether,D.M.,&Plott,C.R.(1979).Economictheoryofchoiceandthe
preferencereversalphenomenon. AmericanEconomicReview,69(4),623-638.
38.Grove,W.M.,Zald,D.H.,Lebow,B.S.,Snitz,B.E.,Nelson,C.(2000)DEMO
versusmechanicalprediction:Ameta-analysis. PsychologicalAssessment,12,
19-30.
39.Hammond,K.R.(1955).Probabilisticfunctioningandtheclinicalmethod.
PsychologicalReview,62,255-262.
40.Hammond,K.R.(1990).Functionalismandillusionism:Canintegrationbeuse-
fullyachieved?InR.M.Hogarth(Ed.), Insightsindecisionmaking:Atribute
DEMO:UniversityofChicagoPress.
41.Hammond,K.R.(1996). Humanjudgmentandsocialpolicy:Irreducibleun-
certainty,inevitableerror,unavoidableinjustice.NewYork:OxfordUniversity
Press.
42.Hammond,K.R.,Hamm,R.M.,Grassia,J.,&Pearson,T.(1987).Directcom-
parisonoftheeﬃcacyofintuitiveandanalyticalcognitioninexpertjudgment.
IEEETransactionsonSystems,Man,andCybernetics,17,753-770.
56RobinM.Hogarth
43.Hertwig,R.,Barron,G.,Weber,E.U.,&Erev,I.(2004).Decisionsfromex-
perienceandtheeﬀectofrareeventsinriskychoice. PsychologicalScience,15
(8),534-539.
44.Hoﬀman,P.J.(1960).Theparamorphicrepresentationofhumanjudgment.
PsychologicalBulletin,57,116-131.
DEMO,U.,Hertwig,R.,&Gigerenzer,G.(2000.Hindsightbias:Aby-product
ofknowledgeupdating? JournalofExperimentalPsychology:Learning,Mem-
ory,andCognition,26,566-581.
46.Hogarth,R.M.(1981).Beyonddiscretebiases:Functionalanddysfunctional
consequencesofjudgmentalheuristics. PsychologicalBulletin,90,DEMO
47.Hogarth,R.M.(1993).Accountingfordecisionsanddecisionsforaccounting.
Accounting,OrganizationsandSociety,18(5),407-424.
48.Hogarth,R.M.(DEMO). Educatingintuition.Chicago:UniversityofChicago
Press.
49.Hogarth,R.M.(2005).Decidinganalyticallyortrustingyourintuition?The
advantagesanddisadvantagesofanalyticandintuitivethought.InT.Betsch&
S.Haberstroh(Eds.), Theroutinesofdecisionmaking.Mahwah,NJ:Erlbaum.
50.Hogarth,R.M.(2006).Isconﬁdenceindecisionsrelatedtofeedback?Evidence
fromrandomsamplesofreal-worldbehavior.InK.Fiedler&P.Juslin(DEMO),
Inthebeginningthereisasample:Informationsamplingasakeytounderstand
adaptivecognition.Cambridge,UK:CambridgeUniversityPress.
51.Hogarth,R.M.,&Einhorn,H.J.(1992).Ordereﬀectsinbeliefupdating:The
belief-adjustmentmodel. CognitivePsychology,24,1-55.
52.Hogarth,R.M.,&Karelaia,N.(2005).Ignoringinformationinbinarychoice
withcontinuousvariables:Whenisless“more”? JournalofMathematicalPsy-
chology,49,115-124.
53.Hogarth,R.M.,&Karelaia,N.(2006)DEMO
gies:Whyandwhentheywork“well”withbinarycues.TheoryandDecision,
61,205-249.
54.Hogarth,R.M.,&Karelaia,N.(2006).Regionsofrationality:DEMO
agents. DecisionAnalysis,3(3),124-144.
55.Hsee,C.K.(1996).Attributeevaluability:Itsimplicationsforjoint-separate
evaluationreversalsandbeyond. DEMO
Processes,67(3),247-257.
56.Hsee,C.K.,Loewenstein,G.F.,Blount,S.,&Bazerman,M.H.(1999).Prefer-
encereversalsbetweenjointandseparateevaluationsofoptions:Areviewand
theoreticalanalysis. PsychologicalBulletin,125(5),576-590.
57.Johnson,E.J.,&Goldstein,D.(2003).Dodefaultssavelives? Science,302,
1338-1339.
58.Kahneman,D.(2003)DEMO:Psychologyforbehavioral
economics. AmericanEconomicReview,93(5),1449-1475.
59.Kahneman,D.,&Frederick,S.(2002).Representativenessrevisited:Attribute
substitutioninintuitivejudgment.InT.Gilovitch,D.Griﬃn,&D.Kahneman
(Eds.), Heuristicsandbiases:Thepsychologyofintuitivejudgment.Cambridge,
UK:DEMO
60.Kahneman,D.,Slovic,P.,&Tversky,A.(Eds.).(1982). Judgmentunderun-
DEMO:Heuristicsandbiases.NewYork:CambridgeUniversityPress.
61.Kahneman,D.,&Tversky,A.(1979).Prospecttheory:Ananalysisofdecision
underrisk. Econometrica,DEMO,263-291.
BehavioralDecisionMakingat5057
62.Kahneman,D.,&Tversky,A.(Eds.).(2000). Choices,values,andframes.New
York:CambridgeUniversityPress.
63.Keeney,R.L.,&Raiﬀa,H.(1976). Decisionswithmultipleobjectives:Prefer-
encesandvaluetradeoﬀs.NewYork:Wiley.
64.Kirkpatrick,L.A.,&Epstein,S.(1992).Cognitive-experientialself-theoryand
subjectiveprobability:Furtherevidencefortwoconceptualsystems. Journalof
PersonalityandSocialPsychology,63,534-544.
65.Klayman,J.,&Ha,Y.-W.(1987).Conﬁrmation,disconﬁrmation,andinforma-
tioninhypothesistesting. PsychologicalReview,94,211-228.
66.Kleinmuntz,B.(1990).Whywestilluseourheadsinsteadofformulas:Toward
anintegrativeapproach. PsychologicalBulletin,107,296-310.
67.Kunst-Wilson,W.R.,&Zajonc,R.B.(1980).Aﬀectivediscriminationofstim-
ulithatcannotberecognized. Science,207,557-558.
68.LeDoux,J.(1996). Theemotionalbrain:DEMO
tionallife.NewYork:Simon&Schuster.
69.LeDoux,J.(2002). Synapticself:Howourbrainsbecomewhoweare.NewYork:
VikingPenguin.
70.Libby,E.(1976).Manversusmodelofman:Someconﬂictingevidence. Orga-
nizationalBehaviorandHumanPerformance,15,1-12.
71.Lichtenstein,S.,&Slovic,P.(1971).Reversalsofpreferencebetweenbidsand
choicesingamblingdecisions. JournalofExperimentalPsychology,89,46-55.
72.Lipshitz,R.,Klein,G,Orasanu,J.,&Salas,E.(2001).Focusarticle:Taking
stockofnaturalisticdecisionmaking. JournalofBehavioralDecisionMaking,
14,331-352.
73.Loewenstein,G.F.,DEMO,E.U.,Hsee,C.K.,&Welch,N.(2001).Riskas
feelings. PsychologicalBulletin,127,267-286.
DEMO,M.F.,Payne,J.W.,&Bettman,J.R.(1999).Emotionaltrade-oﬀdiﬃ-
cultyandchoice. JournalofMarketingResearch,36,143-159.
DEMO,A.L.(1989).Contexteﬀectsinjudgmentsofcausation. Journalof
PersonalityandSocialPsychology,57,189-200.
76.Meehl,P.E.(1954). Clinicalversusstatisticalprediction.Minneapolis:Univer-
sityofMinnesotaPress.
77.Nisbett,R.E.,Fong,G.T.,Lehman,D.R.,&Cheng,P.W.(1987).Teaching
reasoning. Science,238,625-631.
78.Nisbett,R.E.,&Ross,L.(1980). Humaninference:Strategiesandshortcomings
ofsocialjudgment.EnglewoodCliﬀs,NJ:Prentice-Hall.
79.Omodei,M.,McLennan,J.,&Wearing,A.J.(2005).Howexpertiseisapplied
inreal-worlddynamicenvironments:Head-mountedvideoandcuedrecallas
amethodologyforstudyingroutinesofdecisionmaking.InT.Betsch&S.
Haberstroh(Eds.), Theroutinesofdecisionmaking.Mahwah,NJ:Erlbaum.
80.Payne,J.W.(1982)DEMO PsychologicalBulletin,92,
382-402.
81.Payne,J.W.,Bettman,J.R.,&Johnson,E.J.(1992)DEMO
research:Aconstructiveprocessingapproach. AnnualReviewofPsychology,
43,87-131.
82.Payne,J.W.,Bettman,J.R.,&Johnson,DEMO(1993). Theadaptivedecision
maker.NewYork:CambridgeUniversityPress.
83.Peterson,C.R.,&Beach,L.R.(1967).Manasanintuitivestatistician. DEMO
chologicalBulletin,68,29-46.
58RobinM.Hogarth
84.Savage,L.J.(1954). Thefoundationsofstatistics.NewYork:Wiley.
85.Sawyer,J.(1966).Measurementandprediction,clinicalandstatistical. DEMO
chologicalBulletin,66,178-200.
86.Shanteau,J.,Friel,B.M.,Thomas,R.P.,&Raacke,J.(DEMO).Development
ofexpertiseinadynamicdecision-makingenvironment.InT.Betsch&S.
Haberstroh(Eds.), Theroutinesofdecisionmaking.Mahwah,NJ:Erlbaum.
87.Siegel,S.(1957).Levelofaspirationanddecisionmaking. PsychologicalReview,
64,253-262.
88.Simon,H.A.(1955).Abehavioralmodelofrationalchoice. QuarterlyJournal
ofEconomics,69,DEMO
89.Simon,H.A.(1956).Rationalchoiceandthestructureoftheenvironment.
PsychologicalReview,63,129-138.
90.Simon,H.A.(1957). Modelsofman.NewYork:Wiley.
91.Simon,H.A.(1978).Rationalityasprocessandproductofthought. American
EconomicReview,68(2),1-16.
92.Simon,H.A.(1979).Informationprocessingmodelsofcognition. AnnualRe-
viewofPsychology,30,363-396.
93.Slovic,P.(1987).Perceptionofrisk. Science,236,DEMO
94.Slovic,P.(2000). Theperceptionofrisk.London:Earthscan.
95.Slovic,P.,Finucane,M.,Peters,E,&MacGregor,D.(2002).Theaﬀectheuris-
tic.InT.Gilovich,D.Griﬃn,&D.Kahneman(Eds.), Intuitivejudgment:
DEMO,UK:CambridgeUniversityPress.
96.Slovic,P.,Fischhoﬀ,B.,&Lichtenstein,S.(1976).Cognitiveprocessesand
societalrisktaking.InJ.S.Carroll&DEMO(Eds.), Cognitionandsocial
behavior.Potomac,MD:LawrenceErlbaumAssociates.
97.Slovic,P.,Griﬃn,D.,&Tversky,DEMO(1990).Compatibilityeﬀectsinjudgment
andchoice.InR.M.Hogarth(Ed.), Insightsindecisionmaking:Atributeto
HillelJ.Einhorn.Chicago:TheUniversityofChicagoPress.
98.Thorndike,E.L.,&DEMO,I.(1944). Theteacher’swordbookof30,000words.
NewYork:TeachersCollege,ColumbiaUniversity.
99.Tversky,A.,&Kahneman,DEMO(1974).Judgmentunderuncertainty:Heuristics
andbiases. Science,185,1124-1131.
100.Tversky,A.,&Kahneman,D.(DEMO).Extensionalversusintuitivereasoning:
Theconjunctionfallacyinprobabilityjudgment. PsychologicalReview,90,293-
315.
101.Tversky,A.,&Kahneman,D.(DEMO).Rationalchoiceandtheframingofde-
cisions. JournalofBusiness,59(4,Pt.2),S251-S278.
102.vonNeumann,J.,&Morgenstern,O.(1947). Theoryofgamesandeconomic
behavior (2nded.).Princeton,NJ:PrincetonUniversityPress.
103.Wason,P.C.(1960).Onthefailuretoeliminatehypothesesinaconceptual
task. QuarterlyJournalofExperimentalPsychology,12,129-140.
104.Wason,P.C.(1966).Reasoning.InB.M.Foss(Ed.), Newhorizonsinpsychol-
ogy.Harmondsworth:DEMO
105.Yaniv,I.,&Hogarth,R.M.(1993).Judgmentalversusstatisticalprediction:
Informationasymmetryandcombinationrules. PsychologicalScience,4,58-62.
DEMO,R.B.(1968).Attitudinaleﬀectsofmereexposure. JournalofPerson-
alityandSocialPsychologySupplement,9(2,Pt.2),1-27.
107.Zajonc,R.B.(DEMO).Feelingandthinking:Preferencesneednoinferences.
AmericanPsychologist,35,151-175.{1g42fwefx}