
Do serial and non-serial investors behave differently?: An empirical and
theoretical analysis.(Habitual Entrepreneurs and Angel Investors).Mark
Van Osnabrugge. */Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice/* 22.4 (Summer
1998): p23(2). (10181 words) 




*Abstract:*

This research investigates the differences between experience private
investors ('serial angels') in the UK, who have funded three or more
unquoted ventures, and their less experienced counterparts ('non-serial
angels'). Using a theoretical base and data on 141 business angels, this
study tentatively concludes that, relative to non-serial angels, serial
angels may be less concerned with agency risks and more concerned with
market risks. In particular, serial angels limit their investments more
to (and conduct slightly more research on) industry sectors in which
they have personal experience, prefer markets with less competition,
choose to co-invest, are slightly less involved in their investments,
and are less concerned with the location of the venture. (Reprinted by
permission of the publisher.)



*Full Text:*COPYRIGHT 1998 Baylor University

Internationally, the economic importance of small entrepreneurial firms
has been widely recognized. In the US and other major industrial nations
a transition has occurred from decaying industrial economies to emerging
entrepreneurial economies (Wetzel, 1996). "In the US, from 1979 to 1995,
while Fortune 500 payrolls declined by over 4 million jobs, the
entrepreneurial economy generated over 24 million jobs. About
seventy-five percent of these jobs were created by fewer than 10% of
small firms." (Freear, Sohl, & Wetzel, 1997, p. 47) Likewise in the UK,
small firms are a major economic force and have been the subject of some
recent policy initiatives. But all small firms are not alike. The small
minority of firms that have such economic potential are entrepreneurial
ventures that can be distinguished from the others by their growth
potential rather than size. Because they have a vision of rapid growth
of at least 20% annually, they are able to attract external suppliers of
equity capital (Wetzel & Freear, 1994).

Despite their considerable potential, these entrepreneurial firms often
have difficulties obtaining outside equity capital. Because they are
often in the early stage of development and have little or no track
record or collateral, they are seen as risky investments by banks and
other lending institutions (Mason & Harrison, 1996). For venture capital
firms, these firms are also unappealing since their funding requirements
are well below the venture capitalist's minimum investment threshold.
Furthermore, they also require too much active hand-holding, their
returns are risky and uncertain, and any foreseeable exit route at the
time of investment is unlikely (Gupta & Sapienza, 1988; Norton, 1995).

Primarily due to the reluctance of banks and venture capital firms to
fund early-stage entrepreneurial firms, an equity gap exists for their
funding (Freear et al., 1997; Mason, 1996a).

The Importance of Business Angels

Business angels (also known as private equity investors) are the primary
source of finance that is attempting to fill this equity gap (Coveney &
Moore, 1997; Harrison & Mason, 1996; Wetzel & Freear, 1994). They are
private individuals who have substantial sums of finance available to
fund entrepreneurial firms.

The potential of business angels and the informal venture capital market
is enormous. They have been identified as the largest single source of
risk capital for entrepreneurial companies, far exceeding the venture
capital industry (Wetzel, 1993; Wetzel & Freear, 1994; Mason & Harrison,
1993). In the US, it is estimated that business angels finance 30-40
times as many firms as the institutional venture capital community
(Gaston, 1989; Wetzel & Freear, 1994). Business angels invest around
$10-20bn per annum in around 30,000 businesses, whereas venture
capitalists fund around $3-4bn per annum in around 3,000 businesses
(Wetzel, 1996). Similarly in the UK, business angels are estimated to
invest about [pounds]2bn per annum in small entrepreneurial firms,
compared to about [pounds]1bn per annum for the institutional venture
capital market (Mason & Harrison, 1992, 1993). However, more recent
research shows that the amount provided by business angels may be
significantly greater than these estimates (Van Osnabrugge, 1998;
Stevenson & Coveney, 1994). But, due to the invisibility of the business
angel marketplace, these are only 'ball park' estimates and should not
be regarded as definitive (Freear et al., 1997: Mason, 1996b).

In addition to the already greater influence of the informal venture
capital market over the formal venture capital market, business angels
have even greater unutilized finance potential than these figures
suggest (Mason & Harrison, 1993, Coveney & Moore, 1997). Research shows
that angels have up to three times more capital available for investment
than what they have already invested, but what primarily restricts them
is the availability of good investment opportunities and the right
policy incentives (Mason & Harrison, 1993; Freear et al., 1997;
Stevenson & Coveney, 1994). Even though business angels have substantial
financial power, it is their hands-on involvement and sharing of
business expertise that makes them an especially valuable asset to
entrepreneurs (Wetzel, 1983).

Despite their importance, business angels are still not fully
understood. It is hoped that through a greater understanding of the
attitudes, behaviors, and characteristics of business angels it may be
possible to gain insights into ways of harnessing some of their untapped
potential so that this may aid the entrepreneurial economy by putting
these resources to work for entrepreneurs (Freear et al., 1997).

One key conclusion that has emerged from previous research on business
angels is that they do not constitute a homogeneous group (Coveney &
Moore, 1997). The remainder of this article will use theory and UK data
to consider one of the most important dimensions by which active angels
differ - the number of investments they make.

The Importance of Serial Angels

A number of studies have researched this diversity and identified
different types of business angels (Stevenson & Coveney, 1994; Kelly &
Hay, 1996a, b). But despite this work, little is known about the
characteristics and behaviors of the most active segment of the business
angels market - serial angels. These investors differ from non-serial
angels in that they have made three or more investments in young
unquoted companies, whereas the latter have made two or less.

Although serial angels represent a minority of business angels, they
have a sizable influence on entrepreneurial ventures and the market for
entrepreneurial finance and therefore, warrant further investigation. In
particular, this research study concentrates exclusively on serial
angels for several reasons. Firstly, in all likelihood, these investors
probably account for a disproportionately large percentage of actual
investment activity (Kelly & Hay, 1996a, b). Secondly, gaining greater
understanding of the most active segment of the informal venture capital
market may serve to stimulate additional investment activity from
relatively inactive investors (Kelly & Hay, 1996a, b). Thirdly, since
serial investors are usually experienced investors, it may be reasonable
to suggest that experience effects may be operating and thus we may be
able to learn from them (Kelly & Hay, 1996a, b). In particular, the
investment experience of serial investors may enable them to: choose
safer and better investment opportunities; negotiate a fair investment
deal more effectively; write better investment contracts; and monitor
less actively but still as effectively.

Thus far, only one study has investigated serial angels and this was by
means of an exploratory study with eight investors (Kelly & Hay, 1996a,
b). Although this exploratory study rendered some valuable insight into
the topic, further questions still remain.

THEORETICAL BACKGROUND

Inherent in the nature of small entrepreneurial firms is considerable
uncertainty and risk (Pettit & Singer, 1985). Because small firms have a
high failure rate, highly uncertain growth potential, potential
management problems that impose additional monitoring costs, and provide
risks that are not commensurate with returns, they are often
unattractive equity investments for investors (Landstrom, 1992). In
particular, when investing in a new venture, two primary types of risk
are evident: market risk and agency risk (Fiet, 1991; Hart, 1995).

Market Risk and Agency Risk

Market risk is the degree of uncertainty associated with unforeseen
competitive conditions. This may depend on size, growth, accessibility
of the market, and on the existence of a market need (Fiet, 1991, 1995a,
b). Although market risk is not always directly observable, the
following factors can serve as good indicators: technical obsolescence;
many competitors; many potentially new competitors; many substitute
products/services; weak customer demand for a product or service; and
market attractiveness (Fiet, 1995a, Porter, 1980). Thus, the variables
indicative of market risk mirror those presented by Michael Porter in
his five forces model for competitive advantage (Porter, 1980).

Agency risk, however, is risk that is caused by the possibility of
divergent interests between fund providers and the entrepreneur running
the firm (Jensen & Meckling, 1976; Fiet, 1995a). When the interests and
incentives of the entrepreneur differ from those of the fund providers
(business angels), the entrepreneur may be seen as making decisions that
the business angels may not believe are in their mutual interest (Jensen
& Meckling, 1976; Fama & Jensen, 1983). Agency problems tend to arise
particularly in small firms because their levels of asymmetries of
information, the differences in knowledge available to entrepreneurs and
outside equity providers, are greater. The greater these asymmetries
are, the easier it is for the entrepreneur to make decisions to the
detriment of the outside fund providers (Landstrom, 1992; Jensen &
Meckling, 1976).

Controlling Market Risk and Agency Risk

According to classical finance theory, market risk, the risk associated
with unforeseen competitive conditions in the market and business
environment, can be reduced by holding a diversified portfolio of
investments (Wagner & Lau, 1971). Doing so largely eliminates the unique
risk of each investment, although the systematic market risk of the
portfolio will still be evident (Ross, 1978; Roll & Ross, 1994). Under
this assumption, we might expect business angels to prefer a portfolio
of investments that is diversified across industry segments and
development stages (Gupta & Sapienza, 1988). Holding such a portfolio
would significantly decrease the diversifiable market risk of each
investment opportunity and the investor's primary effort could then be
spent on the selection of investments (which complement the diversified
nature of the portfolio) rather than on active participation in these
portfolio firms (which may not be deemed to affect the portfolio
returns) (Wagner & Lau. 1971; Kelly & Hay, 1996b).

Conversely, agency risk, which is largely dependent upon the divergent
views between the investor and the entrepreneur, may be reduced through
two primary approaches: 1) formulating contractual agreements that align
the incentives of the fund provider with those of the entrepreneur: and
2) monitoring by the fund provider (business angel) of the
entrepreneur's activities and expenditures (Jensen & Meckling, 1976).
These contracts (written or unwritten) usually specify the rights of the
entrepreneur, the performance criteria upon which the entrepreneur will
be evaluated, and the payoff functions they face (Fama & Jensen, 1983).
The thoroughness of these contractual agreements, in turn, determines
the level of monitoring undertaken by the fund provider. Since contracts
can never incorporate all future contingencies (i.e. contracts are never
perfect), there will always be some degree of monitoring (Hart, 1995).

In addition to these two ways of reducing agency risk, the informal
venture capital literature suggests that business angels can limit their
investments to entrepreneurs or investment referrers, they know
personally (Haar, Starr, & MacMillan, 1988; Harrison & Mason, 1991;
Landstrom 1990; Kelly & Hay, 1996a, b). Unfortunately, in this study no
direct information was acquired on this particular aspect, especially
because most of the business angels interviewed for this study used a
business introduction service to locate the investment opportunity.

Clearly, investors will try to reduce both market and agency risks by
utilizing information (general and deal-specific) and the expertise they
have acquired over the years. Fiet (1995a) suggests that the importance
an investor may attach to a particular type of risk could be inversely
related to that investor's ability and competence to control that type
of risk. Therefore, it is possible that the type of risk that an
investor may evaluate more is the risk that he/she wants to avoid. For
example, if an investor has greater ability in monitoring the
entrepreneur, rather than in screening the market, the investor may be
less concerned about making an agency mistake because the investor can
structure the deal to protect himself from the risk, or the investor can
get more actively involved as a means of monitoring agency risks. What
this investor would have to avoid, however, would be committing to a
deal in an unattractive market in which he/she may have little control
(Fiet, 1995a).

In this paper, this notion of risk controllability will, thus, be
loosely linked to the level of an investor's investment experience as a
possible indication of that investor's ability to control one type of
risk better than another. In particular, we may assume that serial
angels have climbed further up the learning curve (than non-serial
angels), since they have made more unquoted investments. They have, in
all likelihood, experienced a few past losses and may now be less naive
and more realistic in the screening/due diligence and investment
processes. This idea of the benefit of experience is echoed by Wetzel
who states:

the intensity of an individual's interest in venture investing appears
to be dependent in part upon the investor's familiarity with the
techniques of successful venture investing, as well as upon the
availability of opportunities . . . . Learning the tricks of the trade
takes time and time is scarce (Wetzel, 1987, p. 311).

It might also be assumed that, on average, serial business angels have
more experience in dealing with entrepreneurs and agency issues. This
may make them more adept at negotiating and formulating an investment
deal that better aligns the incentives of the entrepreneur with those of
the serial investor. This implies that they may have more control over,
and are better able to regulate agency issues contractually, rather than
through active participation and monitoring. This is similar to the
behavior of venture capitalists, who "may worry less about agency risk
because they are able to protect themselves through the use of
boilerplate contractual terms and conditions that they append to each
venture capital agreement" (Fiet, 1995b, p. 556): This issue of contract
completeness has received little attention in previous articles on
agency theory and venture capital suppliers, but can certainly shed more
light on business angels.

Thus, since serial angels may formulate better contracts to reduce
agency risks and have more experience in dealing with entrepreneurs and
agency issues, we might propose that they are (relative to non-serial
angels) less concerned with agency issues. Conversely, market risk is
influenced by macroeconomic variables, and therefore may be particularly
challenging to control and evaluate. Thus, with less agency concerns,
serial angels may place more emphasis on reducing market risks in the
investment process. Indeed, in interviews with angels, serial angels
certainly appeared to stress market risk issues more than their less
experienced and more naive counterparts.

Serial Angels' Greater Concern for Market Risk

To reduce market risk, it was previously stated that diversification of
investments is a sound strategy. However, in the entrepreneurial
environment, research has shown that business angels (serial and
non-serial) tend to invest in non-diverse industry segments (Freear &
Wetzel, 1988, 1990; Aram, 1989; Ehrlich, Noble, Moore, & Weaver, 1994).
This implies that they do not hold a diversified investment portfolio,
which could reduce market risk. Thus, limiting their exposure to these
risks is particularly paramount. Fortunately, there are two other
methods that serial angels, especially, may wish to employ to reduce
market risks.

The first method involves investing in market sectors in which the
investor has previous experience (Sullivan, 1991; Mason, Harrison, &
Chaloner, 1991; Landstrom, 1993; Harrison & Mason, 1991; Aram, 1989:
Kelly & Hay, 1996a, b). Supporting this notion, Fiet (1991, 1995a, b)
suggests that business angels may be more comfortable dealing with
market risk (and more concerned about agency risk) due to their previous
experience in the industries in which they have invested. Fiet also
presents empirical evidence to support that venture capitalists are more
concerned with market risk than business angels in general, who give
more importance to agency risk. However, my research(1) has found that
venture capitalists (who are generally more concerned about market
rather than agency risk) tend to have significantly more experience than
business angels in the sectors in which they invest (p [less than]
.001). Therefore, I would like to argue that an investor's prior
industry experience may not necessarily indicate that the investor is
less concerned (and more comfortable dealing) with market risk (relative
to agency risk), but that the investor uses his/her prior industry
experience to reduce the level of market risk.

Based on this and previous arguments, it is proposed that experienced
investors may be more concerned with controlling market risks by
limiting investments to sectors in which they have experience. Indeed,
Harrison & Mason (1992, p. 13) state that it is often the "active
investors in particular (who) have a preference for investing in sectors
or activities in which they have experience." These investors may feel
that their efforts are better focused on deals in which they have an
information and skill advantage (Norton, 1995). This idea is also
supported by the authors of the only other specific paper on serial
investors, Kelly & Hay (1996b), who found that:

a number of investors commented that they became somewhat more selective
in the subsequent investments they made after a negative event by
investing in industrial sectors in which they had direct experience and,
more importantly, by backing people known to them personally or to their
syndicate partners (p. 171).

A second method a business angel may use to reduce market risks is to
conduct research in the market sectors in which he/she invests. Although
it might be argued that those with more experience in a sector will be
less inclined to conduct further research in it, I would like to contend
that although two ventures might be in the same industry sector, and
thus have similar general market risks, they will each have more unique
risks within the market which need to be investigated prior to
investment (especially since angel investors do not follow a
diversification approach). In this sense, this research proposes that,
relative to non-serial angels, serial angels act more like venture
capitalists in their due diligence of risk. Like venture capitalists,
serial angels have less concern about agency risk factors (which they
have experience in controlling) and focus more on the preinvestment
evaluation of market factors. This is not to say that serial angels
closely mirror venture capitalists (in fact they still behave rather
differently), but relative to non-serial angels, serial angels place
less emphasis and concern on agency factors and more on market risk
factors. based

H1: Compared to non-serial investors, serial investors are more
concerned with market risks and therefore more likely to limit their
unquoted investments to industry sectors in which they have prior
experience.

H2: Compared to non-serial investors, serial investors are more
concerned with evaluating market risks and thus also conduct more
research in the industry sectors in which they wish to invest.

A more detailed discussion of serial angels' lesser concern for agency
risk, relative to non-serial angels, will now be given.

Serial Angels' Lesser Concern for Agency Risk

To reduce agency risk. it has been stated that two possible approaches
are contract formulation and investment monitoring. In this section, it
will be shown more fully that due to the investment experience of serial
angels, they may have better command of these two risk-reduction methods
and therefore may be, compared to non-serial angels, less concerned
about agency risk. This argument will now be more fully analyzed for
each risk-limiting approach.

With respect to contract formulation as a means of agency risk
reduction, a notion was proposed earlier that serial investors (with
more unquoted investment experience) are more thorough in their
investment deal negotiation and formulation. In all likelihood, their
past investment experiences (both positive and negative) have taught
them to reduce their risks. This study's interview results certainly
indicate that most serial investors have experienced past investment
losses and (with their acquired investment experience) now prepare more
comprehensive contracts than nonserial angels. Conversely, some
non-serial investors mentioned that their investment contracts were
basically a "friendly handshake." This finding is supported by Mason,
Harrison, and Allen (1995) who found that only 38% of business angels
use professional assistance, and in only 70% of investments was an
investment agreement drawn up.

With respect to monitoring as a means of risk reduction, serial
investors may have fewer incentives (than non-serial angels) to monitor
closely. This is partly because they may have better investment
contracts but also because they have more experience (and possibly more
skill) in dealing with entrepreneurs of unquoted companies, and
therefore may be less concerned about possible agency risks, compared to
the less experienced non-serial angel. A number of researchers also
support the notion that there is a learning or experience curve to the
monitoring of portfolio firms (Norton, 1995; Ruhnka, Feldman, & Dean,
1992). Another explanation may be that because serial angels have larger
investment portfolios, and the time commitments required to actively
monitor each investment is large (Neiswander, 1985), it would be less
likely that they would have time to be actively involved in their
unquoted investments.

Based on all the aforementioned assumptions, the following hypothesis is
formulated:

H3: Serial investors are less actively involved in their unquoted
investment portfolio companies, compared to non-serial angels.

With less involvement, serial investors may prefer to co-invest as a
means of risk reduction. With more investor eyes on the entrepreneur,
there is less need for each individual investor to actively monitor.
This leads us to the next hypothesis:

H4: Compared to non-serial angels, serial angels prefer to co-invest more.

However, the relationship between co-investing and monitoring may not be
clean Kelly and

(i)t is reasonable to suggest that it is not necessary for a given
investor to be actively involved with all the ventures in which he has
invested, rather a member(s) of the syndicate whose background is best
suited to the task can assume an active role while other members are
only passively involved. (p. 164)

Although this might seem plausible, it has the potential to create a
free-rider problem. This occurs when an individual shareholder does not
have an incentive to monitor management, since the gains from improved
management are enjoyed by all shareholders, whereas the costs are borne
only by those who are active (Hart, 1995). One adverse result of this is
that there may be less incentive for individual fund providers to
monitor the entrepreneur and this may reduce the entrepreneur's
constraints on pursuing his/her own goals (Hart, 1995).

In this article more emphasis is placed on the contractual agreements
that serial angels have formulated and their more limited time
availability for monitoring as more probable reasons for their less
active monitoring. Since this study has taken a more contractual view of
the agency risk issue, this argument may be classified more as a
principal-agent research approach rather than the positivist approach to
agency theory (Landstrom, 1992; Fama & Jensen, 1983; Eisenhardt, 1989).

Building on some of the assumptions already made, we might assume that
if serial investors are going to be less actively involved in their
investments, they will be less concerned with investing in ventures that
are geographically close. Indeed, many investors prefer to invest
locally precisely because of monitoring considerations (Mason et al.,
1995). This allows the next hypothesis to be formulated.

H5: With less active involvement in the venture, serial investors are
less concerned than non-serial angels about the geographical location of
the firm they are funding.

In the previous sections, the notion of unquoted investment experience
and experience curves was applied to the theoretical issues surrounding
investment risks. It has been assumed (primarily based on the interview
findings and theory) that greater experience in making unquoted
investments has motivated serial investors to take a more thorough
approach to contract formulation and thus a more "laissez-faire"
approach to the active daily monitoring of their investments, relative
to non-serial angels. Since, thus far, it has been assumed that greater
unquoted investment experience has positive effects on the investment
process, we might also expect that these more experienced serial
investors may also have a higher rate of return on their investments.

H6: Because serial angels have more experience and expertise in making
unquoted investments, all other things being equal, we might expect them
to have higher rates of return on their investments compared to
non-serial angels.

This relationship between experience and returns is discussed by Kelly
and Hay (1996b, p. 171) who ponder whether: "(o)ver time, . . . an
investor enhance(s) his ability to identify 'winners'?" Hopefully, this
paper's findings will shed more light on this issue.

METHODOLOGY

Due to the diverse, dispersed, and confidential nature of most business
angel investment transactions, it is extremely difficult for researchers
to identify these investors for research purposes (Wetzel, 1982). Their
preference for anonymity adds further challenge to the researcher's
task. These difficulties limit the researcher to four main methods for
tackling this problem. Firstly, the [TABULAR DATA FOR TABLE 1 OMITTED]
researcher can use a convenience or a random sample of firms from a
database and encourage them to provide information on their informal
investors (Aram, 1989; Freear & Wetzel, 1990; Freear, Sohl, & Wetzel,
1994a). Secondly, a sample of high-net-worth individuals can be
identified from a database (such as those with mortgages above a certain
threshold) and these individuals can be targeted in the hopes that they
have made informal investments (Freear, Sohl, & Wetzel, 1994b). Thirdly,
since business angels usually are closely connected to other angels, a
snowball technique can also be utilized to increase sample size (Wetzel,
1983). Fourthly, with the help of business introduction services (BISs)
- firms which match entrepreneurs seeking funding with potential
investors looking for investment opportunities - business angels who
subscribe to these services can be targeted as a convenience sample.
This last approach is not widely used in the US, but is more commonly
used in the UK (Mason & Harrison, 1992; Stevenson & Coveney, 1994;
Coveney & Moore, 1997).

For this research study, the fourth approach was utilized to empirically
test the theoretically based hypotheses. Business angels were identified
through their membership with certain business introduction services,
and those services made initial contact with the angel to notify them of
the research study. A two-phased approach was then adopted for the data
collection. In the first phase, semi-structured and open-ended questions
were administered in 25 personal interviews. At the end of each
interview session, a quantitative questionnaire was also administered.
In the second phase, the first phase interview responses were used to
formulate a two-page postal questionnaire, which enabled a larger sample
to be targeted for greater generalization of the results and as a means
of triangulating the data findings. This questionnaire contained a
series of 5-point Likert-scale questions, which allowed respondent to
rate the attractiveness of particular features of their last investment,
and some short-answer questions. Thus, this approach ensured that the
data collected would be deal-specific and based on actual investments
made rather than on general investment preferences. Using a total of
eleven business introduction services around the UK, 252 active business
angels (who had each made an unquoted investment within the last three
years) were targeted, for [TABULAR DATA FOR TABLE 2 OMITTED] a total
response rate of 51%, and a total of 141 usable business angel
responses. This response rate is much higher than that received in other
studies, which may be due to the shortness of the questionnaire and the
referral sources used. Using SPSS software, the quantitative data were
analyzed for statistically significant differences between the two
investor types.

RESULTS

Using the serial investor classification proposed by Kelly and Hay
(1996a, b), the total sample of business angels was divided into those
who had made three or more unquoted investments and those who had only
invested in two or less. The former were then considered, for the
purpose of this research, to be serial angels, and the latter,
non-serial angels. Since dividing the data at three, rather than four or
five, 'unquoted investments made' might seem a bit arbitrary, some
correlation results (of the number of 'unquoted investments made' with
certain variables) will be presented throughout the results section to
show relationships that are evident regardless of the cutoff mark used
for subject classification. Unfortunately, this study does not consider
the time period over which these investments were made. This is
recognized as another potential variable that can be used for
classification, and its omission here may certainly be a limitation.
Thus, out of the 141 angels in this study, 91 (65%) were considered to
be serial investors and 50 (35%) non-serial investors. On average,
serial angels have made a total of 7.2 unquoted investments, while
non-serial angels only 1.5 investments (the median number is five and
two respectively).

Investors Characteristics

Due to their propensity to invest in a larger number of firms, serial
investors might appear to be more entrepreneurial in their investment
behavior than non-serial investors. This is confirmed by statistical
analysis, which shows that serial angels have founded considerably more
ventures as entrepreneurs than non-serial angels. On average, serial
angels have founded 3.04 firms while non-serial angels have started 1.08
firms; the difference is statistically significant (p [less than] .001).
Running a correlation, across the total sample, between 'the number of
firms founded as an entrepreneur' and 'the number of unquoted
investments' produces a very strong correlation of [.6490.sup.**].(2)
One potential explanation of this result may be that a number of
respondents might have considered some of their unquoted investments as
entrepreneurial ventures. However, the question on the questionnaire was
clearly stated so as to ask for the number of businesses founded as an
entrepreneur, not those funded as an investor, although the potentially
low degree of care afforded to questionnaire completion by some
respondents should not be over-looked. This result is also supported by
some previous research that compared the characteristics of
entrepreneurs and non-entrepreneurs. One of the conclusions of this work
was that:

there is reason to believe that entrepreneurs who are investing in the
business venture of another tend to identify with the person and the
process. This identification with or empathy for a fellow entrepreneur
may manifest itself in more readily investing in earlier stage ventures
and in making a greater number of informal investments (Sullivan, 1991,
p. 466).

Since these more entrepreneurial (serial) investors have more empathy
for the entrepreneur and seem to understand him better, it may be
possible to assume that these investors worry less about the
entrepreneur as a source of risk. This would support the assertion made
earlier that serial investors are less concerned about agency risks and
more about market risks, relative to their more inexperienced counterparts.

Sector Experience

During the 25 interviews conducted with business angels it became clear
that there is a considerable learning curve when making unquoted
investments. based on this premise, Hypothesis 1 supposed that because
serial angels have more experience investing in risky unquoted firms
(and are more likely to have experienced a potential loss) they are more
likely to restrict their unquoted investments to industry sectors in
which they have experience and understanding (and are more comfortable
investing in).

This hypothesis (H1) is supported by the empirical data. There is a
statistically significant difference between the amount of specific
industry sector experience that serials have, compared to non-serial
investors, in the ventures they funded (p [less than] .050). A
correlation for the whole angel sample of 'the number of unquoted
investments made' by 'investor experience of the investee firm's
industry sector' also showed a significant positive correlation
([.1875.sup.*]). Thus, compared to nonserial investors, serial investors
have more experience in the industry sector of the unquoted portfolio
firms they fund. This may also add some strength to the assertion that
because serial investors have more concern for market risk, compared to
non-serial investors, (and less concern for agency risk) they tend to
reduce their potential market risks by restricting their investments to
sectors with which they are familiar. However, this does not imply that
serial angels have more concern for market risk as they get more
experience, but that due to their experience they have less concern
about agency risk, and so may be more able to focus on market risk.

Sector Research

In the second hypothesis it was suggested that because serial investors
are more concerned about market risk than serial angels, they are also
more likely to conduct pre-investment research in the sector of the
investee firm, relative to non-serial angels.

This hypothesis (H2) is only partly supported by the empirical data.
Serial, rather than non-serial, investors were more likely to conduct
pre-investment research in the sector of a potential investee firm.
Although this finding was not significant at the 10% significance level,
it was at the 12.6% level (p [less than] .200). Compared to non-serial
investors, serial investors might view their greater inclination to
invest in venture sectors they know (and conducting more research in
those sectors) as their most effective way of reducing market risk. One
researcher contends that business angels, in general, may get frustrated
in obtaining market risk information themselves and substitute agency
information for it, and thus rely on the entrepreneur to evaluate market
risk for them (Fiet, 1995b). Experienced business angels may have
discovered that such relationships do not always lead to a positive
outcome and may now feel more inclined to conduct the market research
themselves.

The empirical result presented here may offer very loose support to the
assertion that serial investors are more concerned with controlling
market risks ex ante investment than are non-serial angels. However,
other data show that serial angels are more attracted than non-serial
angels to ventures in industries with less competition (p [less than]
.100). This may thus add slightly more support to the notion that serial
angels are more concerned about market risks.

Post-investment Involvement

It was suggested earlier that due to their more restricted time
availability for active participation (Kelly & Hay, 1996b) and better
investment contracts to protect their interests in the investee firm
(Norton, 1995; Hart, 1995), serial business angels may be less inclined
to get actively involved in their investments.

This hypothesis (H3) is not supported by the empirical regression data
but is given weak support by the correlational data. Although the
variable that measured an 'investor's desire for involvement' was not
significantly different based upon the cut-off for the classification
set (i.e. those with [less than] 3 unquoted investments are non-serial
angels), there was a statistically significant negative relationship
across the whole angel sample for 'the number of unquoted investments
made' and 'desire for involvement' (correlation [-.1951.sup.*]).
Likewise, the degree to which investors actively monitor their
investments did not significantly differ for the two angel groups
classified.

However, there was a statistically significant negative relationship
across the angel sample between 'the number of unquoted investments
made' and 'the degree to which the investor actively monitors the
investment' (correlation [-.1783.sup.*]).

On average, serial investors telephone their portfolio firms 7.1 times
per month, while nonserial angels call 9.1 times per month (p = .267).
But when the degree of telephone contact is considered across the
non-serial investor population, there is a strong negative relationship
between 'telephone contact' and 'the number of unquoted investments
made' (correlation [-.3127.sub.*]).

Similarly, the average number of visits per month for serial investors
is 2.7 times per month and 3.8 times per month for non-serial investors,
which was not significantly different (p = .209). But like the number of
telephone calls per month, there is a statistically significant negative
relationship across the non-serial angel sample between 'the number of
unquoted investments made' and 'the number of visits per month' to the
portfolio firm (correlation [-.3127.sup.*]).

Although the opportunity to get involved is rarely one of the most
influential factors that attracts investors, the empirical results do
show, to some degree, that serial angels are less involved in the
monitoring of their unquoted portfolio firms than non-serial angels.
But, because serial angels have (by definition) more ventures to
monitor, we might expect that the amount of hands-on monitoring will
decrease with an increase in investments. But this does not imply that
serial angels' monitoring effectiveness also decreases, in fact, the
opposite may be true.

Preference for Co-investing

In addition to their greater industry sector experience and sector
research, serial investors might consider co-investing with other
business angels as another means of risk reduction. With more
investments to cater to in their investment portfolio, serial investors
have less available time to monitor each venture. Although they might
have more developed investment contracts aligning the actions of the
entrepreneur with their own, one business angel stated that "the quality
of the investment contract is only as good as the business." With this
in mind, serial investors may be prone to finding other ways to reduce
agency and market risks.

Co-investing may render these more seasoned investors the knowledge that
"if two other investors are investing in the firm, then it must be a
good investment opportunity." Thus, safety in numbers may be seen as a
way to reduce market risk due diligence, but also by having more
coinvestors to monitor the investment, agency risk may also be reduced.
Past research in the US has shown that over half the business angels
prefer to co-invest, while it has been suggested that UK business angels
prefer to invest alone more than their US counterparts (Freear et al.,
1994). based on the belief that serial angels might be slightly less
active in monitoring the firm, it was hypothesised that they might
prefer to co-invest in order to share the monitoring responsibility.

This hypothesis (H4) is supported by the empirical data. Serial
investors show a significant preference over non-serial investors for
co-investing (p [less than] .050). When analysed across the whole angel
sample, there is a strong positive relationship between 'liking to
co-invest' and 'the number of unquoted investments made' (correlation
[.1850.sup.*]). However, since hypothesis 3 did not conclusively show
that serial angels are less "hands-on," an additional explanation for
the serial angel's greater preference for co-investing, compared to the
non-serial angel, may be due to the former's greater opportunity to
co-invest. Indeed, with more investment experience and market
familiarity, a serial angel may know more players in the market with
whom he/she might prefer to co-invest.

Geographical Locality Preferences

With greater unquoted investment experience, slightly less active
involvement in their investee firms, and more co-investing, serial
investors may feel less inclined to restrict their search for a good
investment opportunity in their local geographical area, whereas
individual investors (not co-investing) seem to have a preference for
investments relatively close to home (Wetzel & Freear, 1994).

This hypothesis (H5) is supported by the empirical data. There is a
statistically significant difference between a serial investor's concern
for investing locally compared to that of the non-serial investor (p
[less than]. 100). When this is analyzed across the whole angel sample,
there is a strong negative relationship between 'the number of
investments made' and 'the preference for investing locally'
([-.1847.sup.*]). There is also a positive correlation for 'desire for
involvement' and 'preference for a local venture' (correlation
[.3700.sup.**]). Forty-four percent of the serial angels indicated that
the location of the venture was a very important or important
attraction, while almost 60% of the nonserial angels thought so.

One explanation may be the lesser degree of active involvement by the
serial angel as his/her number of investments grows. A second
explanation(3) may be that due to the serial angel's greater level of
investment activity, he/she will more likely have saturated a local area
in the search for suitable investment opportunities and may search
further away from home.

Returns on Investment and Venture Performance

Although investment performance of small unquoted entrepreneurial
ventures is dependent upon many factors beyond the investor's and
entrepreneur's control, all other things being equal, one might expect
that more experienced investors in these firms will have greater
expertise in making successful investments. Furthermore, the past
entrepreneurial experience of serial angels may imply that they "have
acquired the kind of experience (street smarts) that it takes to start,
manage and harvest a successful entrepreneurial venture" (Freear, Sohl,
& Wetzel, 1992, p .379). Research on venture capitalists has shown that
they have an above average tendency to pick winners (Hall & Hofer, 1993)
- could this be the case for serial angels too?

This hypothesis (H6) is supported by the empirical data. When asked to
list the annual rate of return initially expected on the venture, serial
investors stated an average rate of 33%, while nonserial angels gave
22.9%, a difference that is statistically significant (p [less than]
.050). The median rates of return initially expected are 20% and 30%
respectively, adding further support that serial angels appear to be
more optimistic in their investment returns than non-serial angels.
These findings are relevant because little research has been conducted
on the returns from investing in the informal venture capital market
(Mason et al., 1995; Freear et al., 1997). When comparing the annual
rate of return that the business angels now expect (an average of 1.2 to
1.5 years since the investment for the serial and non-serial investors
respectively), the serial angels stated an average return of 29%, while
the non-serial angels stated an average return of 18%, a difference that
is statistically significant (p [less than] .200).

However, since the median returns are 17.5% and 20% respectively, it is
clear that serial angels have more investors at the high end of the
return rate spectrum. Thus, although serial angels do appear to have
better-performing investments, one must be careful not to firmly
conclude that they make significantly larger rates of return than
non-serial angels. To actually realize these investment returns, an
investor must have an exit route. Comparing this criterion for the two
groups shows that 36% of the serial angels thought that identification
of an exit route before investment was essential, whereas it was only of
similar importance for 24% of the non-serial angels.

Whether past investment (and possibly entrepreneurial) experience in
unquoted companies is responsible for the slightly higher returns for
serial investors cannot be determined, but it could certainly be the
case that when investing in small, risky, entrepreneurial ventures,
experience may count. Past research has shown that certain entrepreneurs
are able to utilize experience gained from starting previous ventures to
enhance the survival chances of their businesses (Carter, Williams, &
Reynolds, 1997). In this way, serial investors may also use their past
entrepreneurial experience to make better unquoted investments. A second
explanation may be that non-serial investors do not reduce risks (and
steer the venture) as actively, and with as much effect, as they might
have hoped when initially entering the investment. This suggestion is
supported by previous research:

(p)erhaps the most straightforward interpretation is that unsuccessful
investors have an inflated opinion of the value of their hands on
contribution, whereas successful investors recognise that the
entrepreneur is in the driving seat and hence an external investor's
influence is, inevitably, relatively marginal to the success or
otherwise of the business. (Lumme, Mason, & Suomi, 1996)

Alternatively, serial investors may just be more confident investors (as
the larger sample of firms in their portfolio shows) and therefore may
be inherently more optimistic about the realized returns they will
receive, as may be shown by the high correlation between 'initial
returns expected' and 'returns now expected to realize' (correlation
[.5311.sup.*]). This is partly supported by a previous study, which
found that with regard to their investment practices, "entrepreneurs
perceived their downside risk to be less" than did non-entrepreneurs
(Sullivan, 1991).

CONCLUSIONS

This is the first large-scale attempt to study the investment
characteristics of the most influential group of informal equity
investors - serial angels. Due to the exploratory nature of this study,
and some of the inherent methodological limitations, the results
presented in this paper should not be considered as firm conclusions,
but rather as findings that can be used as building blocks for future
research.

Some the empirical and theoretical findings on the differences between
serial and non-serial angels presented in this paper now follow.

Compared to non-serial angels, serial angels:

* have founded more firms as entrepreneurs themselves.

* tend to invest more in industry sectors in which they have previous
experience.

* tend to conduct slightly more research on the industry sectors in
which they invest.

* prefer co-investing with other business angels.

* are more attracted to industries with less competition.

* are possibly less inclined to take a "hands-on" role in running the firm.

* are less concerned about the location of the ventures they fund.

* are more optimistic upon entering their investments, but show only
slightly higher rates of return.

* may be more concerned about controlling market risks and less
concerned about agency risks (than non-serial angels).

[TABULAR DATA FOR TABLE 3 OMITTED]

But what main conclusion can be generated from these findings? The
findings presented in this paper may shed some light on the question:
"(to) what extent does a 'play money' mentality set in whereby investors
are prepared to back ventures competing in an unfamiliar industry lead
by an entrepreneur unknown to them or to other investors in the deal?"
(Kelly & Hay, 1996b, p. 171) The results presented in this paper
indicate that with more unquoted investment experience, business angels
may take on less of a 'play money' mentality because their past gains
and losses on unquoted investments have taught them to be less naive and
potentially more careful with their financial investments. One
indication of this may be their greater propensity, than more
inexperienced investors, to invest in industry sectors in which they
have prior experience. For these more experienced serial investors, the
market risks may seem less controllable than agency risks, and may
therefore take on a greater importance in the investment process.

IMPLICATIONS

As the most influential private investors in small entrepreneurial
firms, serial business angels need to be understood better to determine
what attracts this segment of the informal capital market to invest so
frequently. Although both serial and non-serial angels invest similar
amounts on average per unquoted investment (in this study, each group
invested an average of [pounds]55,000), serial investors make a greater
number of investments and therefore have a much greater economic impact
than any other informal investor type. The research findings presented
in this study may have beneficial implications for entrepreneurs,
business angels, business introduction services, and policy.

Entrepreneurs may benefit from this research by gaining greater
understanding of how serial angels assess an investment proposal and
behave as investors. In addition, having a better understanding of the
different types of business angels allows entrepreneurs to assess which
investor will best match their firm's needs and enable them to
specifically target that angel type.

Business angels may also benefit from this research by learning "the
tricks of the trade"; better knowledge of the investment behavior of
experienced investors can be of great benefit to more inexperienced
angels who want to learn (Riding, Dalcin, Druxbury, Haines, & Safrate,
1993). The comparison of non-serial with serial angel, may highlight
some important areas of potential improvement for both angel types, but
especially for the more inexperienced non-serial angel. A greater
understanding of serial and non-serial investor behavior and preferences
may also shed more light on how to motivate virgin angels. These are
individuals with an inclination and enough discretionary wealth to fund
an entrepreneurial firm, but who have not yet done so.

Business introduction services may use this research to gain a better
understanding of how the most active segments of business angels differ,
especially in respect to their initial review procedures and
preferences. This will provide valuable information to them on the types
of information they should include, or not include, in their investment
databases, and the ordering and layout of their materials (Mason &
Harrison, 1994). Information on business angel behavior can also
identify areas where these investors need assistance, so that these
needs can be better met by the services offered by the business
introduction service (Mason et al., 1995).

Policy to promote entrepreneurial ventures and their procurement of
financial backing may also benefit from this research. A better
understanding of the informal venture capital market may allow policy to
be better formulated, with potentially more success. Although the UK has
led the way in policy initiatives (Freear et al., 1997), it has been
pointed out that, thus far, policy may be running ahead of knowledge
(Mason, 1996a).

DIRECTIONS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH

Although in this study qualitative data from the 25 personal interviews
was used to enlighten the quantitative findings, a number of facets were
not fully explored across the rest of the respondents. One of these
facets was the degree to which the investor has prior knowledge of the
entrepreneur (Kelly & Hay, 1996a, b). Future studies may want to
investigate this closer and link it with the general findings presented
in this paper.

This paper also suggests that serial investors, relative to their
non-serial angel counterparts, may place more weight on market risks
than agency risks in the investment evaluation process. Although this
was based on a theoretical overview and circumstantial empirical
evidence, these possible relationships need to be explored more fully.

Likewise, this paper has shown that serial investors have higher initial
expected rates of return and higher expected realized rates of return
than those of non-serial investors. Whether this is due to their better
knowledge and experience of investing in (and starting) unquoted
investments, or whether this is due to greater optimism by the average
serial angel, also needs to be further explored.

Throughout this paper, certain assumptions were formulated based upon
the greater unquoted investment experience of serial angels relative to
that of non-serial angels. Although the interviews conducted clearly
showed that there is a steep learning curve when making business angel
investments, there is uncertainty as to when this curve starts to even
out and if it differs greatly depending upon the investor's industry
background or industry sector preferences.

One of the most interesting findings from this research was that serial
investors have a preference for co-investing. This is an important
aspect of business angel investing that needs to be investigated
further. Kelly and Hay (1996b) echo this sentiment:

(a) clear need also exists to examine issues related to investment
syndication and co-investment activity. If the most active segment of
the population disproportionately invests as part of a group, it is
imperative to understand the dynamics of syndication. (p.172)

Closely related to the issue of co-investment is the issue of
geographical location and how a preference for local investing differs
depending upon the level of investment activity and co-investment.

Lastly, although a theoretical background supports this research, there
is little application of theory to the study of informal venture capital
(Freear et al., 1997). Unlike past theoretical approaches (Fiet 1991,
1995a, 1995b; Landstrom, 1992), this paper alludes to the quality of
investment contracts as one possible manner of reducing potential agency
costs. A more definitive study of the relationship between the
completeness of investment contracts and an investor's business angel
experience may add more support to the principal assertions made in this
paper, which, with respect to this issue, were heavily based upon the
data from the business angel interviews. One goal of this paper is to
forward this issue of contract incompleteness for consideration and
further examination in the business angel context.

1. The research finding is discussed more fully in a forthcoming paper.

2. For the remainder of the article: ** correlation is significant at
0.01; * correlation is significant at 0.05.

3. This alternative explanation was suggested by Professor Jeffrey Sohl
in a conversion with the author.

REFERENCES

Aram, J. D. (1989) Attitudes and behaviors of informal investors toward
early-stage investments, technology-based ventures and coinvestors.
Journal of Business Venturing, 4, 333-347.

Carter, N.M., Williams, M., & Reynolds, P. D. (1997). Discontinuance
among new firms in retail: The influence of initial resources, strategy,
and gender. Journal of Business Venturing, 12, 125-145.

Coveney, P., & Moore, K. (1998). Business angels: securing start up
finance, London: John Wiley & Sons.

Ehrlich, S. B., Noble, A. E, Moore, T., & Weaver, R. R. (1994). After
the cash arrives: A comparative study of venture capital firms and
private investor involvement in entrepreneurial firms. Journal of
Business Venturing, 9, 67-82.

Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Agency theory: An assessment and review.
Academy of Management Review, 14(1), 57-74.

Fama, E., & Jensen, M. C. (1983). Separation of ownership and control.
Journal of Law & Economics, 26, 301-325.

Fiet, J. O. (1991). Network reliance by venture capital firms: An
empirical and theoretical test. In N. C. Churchill, W. D. Bygrave, J. G.
Covin, D. L. Sexton, D. P. Slevin, K. H. Vesper, & W. E. Wetzel,
Frontiers of entrepreneurship research, pp. 445-455. Wellesley MA:
Babson College.

Fiet, J. O. (1995a). Reliance upon informants in the venture capital
industry. Journal of Business Venturing, 10, 195-223.

Fiet, J.O. (1995b). Risk avoidance strategies in venture capital
markets, Journal of Management Studies, 32(4), 551-574.

Freear, J., Sohl, J. E., & Wetzel, W. E. (1992). The investment
attitudes, behavior and characteristics of high net worth individuals.
In N. C. Churchill, S. Birley. W. D. Bygrave, D. E. Muzyka, G. Wahlbin,
& W. E. Wetzel, Frontiers of entrepreneurship research, pp. 374-387.
Wellesley MA: Babson College.

Freear, J., Sohl, J. E., & Wetzel, W.E. (1994a). The private investor
market for venture capital. The Financier: ACMT. 1(2), 7-15.

Freear, J., Sohl, J. E., & Wetzel, W. E. (1994b) Angels and non-angels:
Are there differences? Journal of Business Venturing, 9, 109-123.

Freear, J., Sohl, J. E., & Wetzel, W. E. (1997) The informal venture
capital market: Milestones passed and the road ahead. In D. Sexton, & R.
Smilor, (Eds.). Entrepreneurship 2000, pp. 47-70. Chicago: Upstart
Publications Company.

Freear, J., & Wetzel, W. E. (1988). Equity financing for new
technology-based firms. In B. A. Kirchhoff, W. A. Long, W. E. McMullan,
K. H. Vesper, & W. E. Wetzel (Eds.), Frontiers of entrepreneurship
research, pp. 347-367. Wellesley MA: Babson College.

Freear, J., & Wetzel, W. E. (1990). Who bankrolls high-tech
entrepreneurs? Journal of Business Venturing, 5, 77-89. Gaston, R.J.
(1989) Finding private venture capital for your firm: A complete guide.
New York: Wiley & Sons.

Gupta, A. K., & Sapienza, H. J. (1988). The pursuit of diversity by
venture capital firms: Antecedents and implications. In B. A. Kirchhoff,
W. A. Long, W. E. McMullan, K. H. Vesper, & W. E. Wetzel, (Eds.),
Frontiers of Entrepreneurship Research, pp. 290-302. Wellesley MA:
Babson College.

Haar, N. E., Starr, J., & MacMillan, I. C., (1988). Informal risk
capital investors: Investment patterns on the east coast of the U.S.A.
Journal of Business Venturing. 3, 11-29.

Hall, J., & Hofer, C. W. (1993). Venture capitalists' decision criteria
in new venture evaluation, Journal of Business Venturing. 8, 25-41.

Harrison, R. T., & Mason, C. M. (1991). Informal venture capital in the
UK and the USA: A comparison of investor characteristics and
decision-making. In N. C. Churchill, W. D. Bygrave, J. G. Covin, D. L.
Sexton, D. P. Slevin, K. H. Vesper, & W. E. Wetzel, (Eds.), Frontiers of
Entrepreneurship Research, pp. 469-481. Wellesley MA: Babson College.

Harrison, R. T., & Mason, C. M. (1992) The roles of investors in
entrepreneurial companies: A comparison of informal investors and
venture capitalists. Venture Finance Research Project, Working Paper
No.5, University of Southampton and Ulster Business School.

Harrison, R. T., & Mason, C. M. (1996). Developments in the promotion of
informal venture capital in the UK. International Journal of
Entrepreneurial Behaviour & Research, 2(2) 6-33.

Hart, O. (1995). Firms. contracts, and financial structures. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.

Jensen, M. C., & Meckling, W. H. (1976). Theory of the firm: Managerial
behavior, agency costs and ownership structure, Journal of Financial
Economics. 3, 305-360.

Kelly, P., & Hay, M. (1996a). Serial investors: An exploratory study. In
P. D. Rynolds, S. Birley, J. E. Butler, W. D. Bygrave, P. Davidsson, W.
B. Gartnor, & P. P. McDougall, (Eds.), Frontiers of entrepreneurship
research, pp. 344-358, Wellesley MA: Babson College.

Kelly, P., & Hay, M. (1996b). Serial investors and early stage finance,
Entrepreneurial and Small Business Finance, 5(3)159-174.

Landstrom, H. (1990). Co-operation between venture capital companies and
small firms. Entrepreneurship & Regional Development. 2, 345-362.

Landstrom, H. (1992) The relationship between private investors and
small firms: An agency theory approach. Entrepreneurship & Regional
Development. 4, 199-223.

Landstrom, H. (1993). Informal risk capital in Sweden and some
international comparisons. Journal of Business Venturing. 8, 525-540.

Lumme, A., Mason, C., & Suomi, M. (1996). The returns from informal
venture capital investments: Some evidence from Finland. In P. D.
Rynolds, S. Birley, J. E. Butler, W. D. Bygrave, P. Davidsson, W. B.
Gartnor, & P. P. McDougall, (Eds.), Frontiers of entrepreneurship
research, pp. 344-358 Wellesley MA: Babson College.

Mason, C. M. (1996a) Informal venture capital: Is policy running ahead
of knowledge? International Journal of' Entrepreneurial Behaviour &
Research. 2(1), 4-14.

Mason, C. M. (1996b). International informal venture capital research
newsletter, Number 4, Summer.

Mason, C. M., & Harrison, R. T (1992). The supply of equity finance in
the UK: A strategy for closing the equity gap, Journal of Business
Venturing, 4(4). 357-380.

Mason, C. M., & Harrison, R. T. (1993). Strategies for expanding the
informal venture capital market, International Small Business Journal.
11(4), 23-38.

Mason, C. M, & Harrison, R. T. (1994). Why business angels say no: A
case study of opportunities rejected by an informal investor syndicate.
Venture Finance Research Project, Working Paper No.7, University of
Southampton and Ulster Business School.

Mason, C. M., & Harrison, R. T (1996). The UK clearing banks and the
informal venture capital market. International Journal of Bank
Marketing, 14(1). 5-14.

Mason, C. M., & Harrison, R.T. (1997) Business angels in the UK: A
response to Stevenson & Coveney. International Small Business Journal.
Jan/March, 83-89.

Mason, C. M., Harrison, R. T., & Allen, P. (1995). Informal venture
capital: A study of the investment process, the postinvestment
experience and investment performance. Venture Finance Research Project,
Working Paper No. 12, University of Southampton and Ulster Business School.

Mason. C. M., Harrison, R. T, & Chaloner, J. (1991). Informal risk
capital in the UK: A study of investor characteristics, investment
preferences and investment decision-making. Venture Finance Research
Project, Working Paper No. 2, University of Southampton and Ulster
Business School.

Mason, C. M., & Rogers, A. (1996). Understanding the business angel's
investment decision. Venture Finance Research Project, Working Paper No.
14, University of Southampton and Ulster Business School.

Neiswander, D. K. (1985). Informal seed stage investors. In J. A.
Hornday, E. B. Shils, J. A. Timmons, K. H. Vesper, (Eds.), Frontiers of
entrepreneurship research, pp. 185-197. Wellesley MA: Babson College.

Norton, E. (1995). Venture capital as an alternative means to allocate
capital: An agency-theoretic view. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice,
20(2), 19-29.

Pettit, R. R., & Singer, R. F. (1985). Small business finance: A
research agenda. Financial Management, 14(3), 47-59.

Porter, M. E. (1980).Competitive strategy. New York: Free Press.

Riding, A., Dal Cin, P., Druxbury, L., Haines, G., & Safrata, R. (1993).
Informal investors in Canada: The identification of salient
characteristics. Ottawa: Carleton University.

Roll, R., & Ross, S. (1994). On the cross-sectional relationship between
expected returns and betas. Journal of Finance, 49, 101-121.

Ross, S. (1978). The current status of the capital asset pricing model.
Journal of Finance, Papers and Proceedings. 135-143.

Ruhnka, J., Feldman, H., & Dean, T. (1992). The 'living dead' phenomenon
in venture capital investments. Journal of Business Venturing, 7(2),
137-155.

Stevenson, H., & Coveney, P. (1994). Survey of business angels:
Fallacies corrected and six distinct types of angel. Henley-on-Thames:
Venture Capital Report Ltd.

Sullivan, M. K. (1991). Entrepreneurs as informal investors: Are there
distinguishing characteristics? In N. C. Churchhill, W. D. Bygrave, J.
G. Covin, D. L. Sexton, D. P. Slevin, K. H. Vesper, W. E. Wetzol,
(Eds.), Frontiers of Entrepreneurship Research, pp. 456-468. Wellesley
MA: Babson College. 456-468.

Van Osnabrugge, M. (1998) The financing of entrepreneurial firms in the
UK: a comparison of business angel and venture capitalist investment
procedures, unpublished doctoral thesis. Oxford University.

Wagner, W. H., & Lau, S.C. (1971). The effect of diversification on
risk. Financial Analysts Journal, 27, 48-53.

Wetzel, W. E. (1982). Risk capital research. In C. A. Kent, D. L.
Sexton, & K. H. Vesper, (Eds.), Encyclopedia of entrepreneurship,
chapter 8. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.

Wetzel, W. E. (1983). Angels and informal risk capital. Sloan Management
Review, Summer, 23-34.

Wetzel. W. E. (1987). The informal venture capital market: Aspects of
scale and market efficiency. Journal of Business Venturing, 2, 299-313.

Wetzel, W. E. (1993). Statements to the House Banking, Finance and Urban
Affairs Committee, Subcommittee of Economic Growth and Credit Formation,
Roundtable Hearing, November 16, 1993.

Wetzel, W. E. (1996). Economic policy in an entrepreneurial world: Seven
treacherous misconceptions and half-truths. Venture Capital Report, April.

Wetzel, W. E., & Freear, J. (1994). Promoting informal venture capital
in the United States: Reflections on the history of the venture capital
network. In R. Harrison, & C. M. Mason, (Eds.), Informal venture
capital: Information, networks and public policy, Hemel-Hempstead:
Woodhead-Faulkner.

The author would like to thank Colin Mayer and Keith Grint, his Oxford
University thesis supervisors, and Lucius Cary, Chairman and Founder of
Venture Capital Report Ltd. In addition, a debt of gratitude is extended
to the following UK business introduction services for their assistance:
Venture Capital Report (VCR), SouthWest Investment Group (SWIG),
TEChINVEST, Capital Access, Capital Connections, Capital Match, Cheshire
Contracts, Gloucestershire Business Angels Scheme, IDJ Ltd., Informal
Register of Investment Services, and Kidsons Impey. Lastly, sincere
thanks also to Kristine Eschner for her support and guidance.

Financial assistance for this study was received from The Tony Lorenz
Memorial Trust Fund (British Venture Capital Association) and through an
ORS Scholarship (British Government).

Mark Van Osnabrugge is a Post Doctoral Fellow at the Harvard Business
School.


*Source Citation:*Van Osnabrugge, Mark. "Do serial and non-serial
investors behave differently?: An empirical and theoretical
analysis." _Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice_ 22.4 (Summer
1998): 23(2). _Expanded Academic ASAP_. Gale. UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO. 22
Dec. 2007 
<http://find.galegroup.com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/itx/start.do?prodId=EAIM>.

*Gale Document Number:*A55083939





© 2007 Gale, a part of The Thomson Corporation.
Thomson and Star Logo are trademarks and are registered trademarks used
herein under license
